General info about tweaking can be found on the Tweaking guide page, and on this page's first post (use a translator): http://rusmnb.ru/index.php?PHPSESSID=op134t10tqjoh15rtu1tdao4g5&topic=20941.0

Submods/addons for Prophesy of Pendor
Expand
The Complete Arsenal of Al-Aziz (more rune equipment to buy): https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6315 (also available in tweak form below)
Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment (make troops perform more reliably under various scenarios): https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6347
Vetrogor's Polished Landscapes (more realistic looking nature): https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,344227.msg9236339.html#msg9236339
Hoboistice's Halfsword+Mordhau+Handgun addon (new weapon modes and weapons, including a pistol): https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php?threads/submod-halfsword-mordhau-handgun.433637/
Ldsantana's Pendor Rearmed (troop tree overhauls, nerf to bows and crossbows): https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6367/ and https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php?threads/submod-pendor-rearmed.427355/post-9488577
Adorno's Arena Overhaul (unique and interesting-looking arenas, works for other mods too): https://www.mbrepository.com/file.php?id=1760
Doghotel's Brainy Bots (more challenging fights, works for other mods too): https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6033/

Tweak Compilations
Expand

You may consider these as unofficial patches for Prophesy of Pendor v3.9.5.1 compiled together for an easy copy-paste application, for those who find tweaking troublesome or are just lazy to bother with applying tweaks themselves. Made from the tweaks below, with probably some extra fine-tuning as the author saw fit. In order to install one (they are mutually exclusive!), just download the respective compressed package, extract its content to your PoP module, and overwrite everything when prompted.

1) dani26795's compilation of tweaks: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/5025ik99z7k6dru/AABu-rYnOmi34SCV2o1IlWYGa?dl=0
A trustworthy selection, with carefully selected and adjusted tweaks to not make things too easy but improve your gameplay experience. Tested by a playthrough of the author for showcase: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJnHyr4pSbc&list=PLyjj8FJfkGMvL010FIuV4FKUQJf6aws78
Here's the list of tweaks applied, with notes added about the actual execution and differences: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1riqE1gPCRs2Gq6n2PptGd81nK4oEbPA6/view?usp=sharing
Tweaks that require a new game to take effect but are safe to use on an existing savegame:
Guarantee KO chapters at a new game's start
Change the garrison size of walled fiefs
Revise the household troop allocation and add new ones to lords
Tweaks that require a new game to take effect but can be fixed with a savegame editor if you want the changes to apply (see the respective tweaks for further instructions):
Make Inquisition rightfully hostile towards Singalians and Outlaws too
Change the hiring cost and personality of companions
Make the equipment of medium- and high-tier companions great again, and lock their inventories up until certain levels
Various little tweaks for troops (connect upgrade paths / be more viable / get unused and more fitting items)
Add a Mettenheim NPC to the tavern of Valonbray who will offer Mettenheim troops and arms weekly
List of known issues and fixes:
Opcode error in simple_trigger #135 spamming on the world map: reapply point 8) of tweak 13 l) (To send troops from your party to any walled fief you own) by replacing the simple_trigger's entry in question.
Error messages happening on the battlefield (e.g. when horse archers get dehorsed): apply tweak 10 c) (To fix the error messages appearing from reassignment tweaks)
No-ammo ranged foot units reassign themselves to the infantry group and you want to designate a different division: apply points 1), 5), 6), 7), 8), 9) of tweak 10 a) (To reassign archers, crossbowmen and arquebusiers to the division of your choice after depleting their ammo), since an older version of the tweak is in the compilation and these were not part of the original deal. For each of the mission_templates.txt sections listed in point 2), find this trigger:
-58.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  30 2072 1 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774912 0 1570 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 17 31 2 1224979098644774913 9 2071 1 1224979098644774914 1712 1 1224979098644774914 1702 1 1224979098644774914 1707 1 1224979098644774914 1727 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774915 0 1714 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 31 2 1224979098644774916 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1 4 0 1073742365 3 144115188075856280 0 3 541 3 144115188075856280 0 2 1770 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075856381 31 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075856383 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 1773 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774919 6 1783 2 1224979098644774914 0 505 3 1224979098644774914 46 0 3 0 


And replace it with the one from point 3). Skip the increase of the respective trigger counters, as well as point 4)! (unchanged compared to the original version)

Books' reading progress goes above 100%: the culprit is tweak 18 p) (To change the number of hours it takes to read a book). Find this piece of code in simple_triggers.txt:
31 2 1224979098644774915 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 10 507 3 144115188075856161 2 1224979098644774914 30 2 1224979098644774914 1200


And change the two highlighted values of 10 and 1200 to 8 and 1000 respectively. This will result in a 1000/8 hour completion length instead of the bugged 1200/10 hour, which is roughly the same (the 1000 base value needs to be unchanged for the correct display of read progress).

Building a fief improvement directly gets you locked in the build menu with no way out: reapply (copy and overwrite) the 6th line of point 3) and point 6) of tweak 13 w) (To be able to build fief improvements without having to visit the given fief)
2) Rebel's compilation of tweaks: https://www.dropbox.com/s/5wwuugwbgaq9n5o/Rebel%27s%20PoP%20Tweaks.rar?dl=0
A modest selection of tweaks, keeping a vanilla experience, but improved with quality-of-life changes
Here's the list of tweaks applied per section, with notes about how they were implemented: https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTNewToN8-zByPmNdPuBQzjl1xX74EUrKIPRRjmsRWALiDYti9ZLFtawCxmu1GVKg/pub
Note: the downloaded .rar package has an extra folder within, containing the actual files, so a direct extraction to your PoP module won't be enough this time. You need to make sure that you are copying over the files within to where they can overwrite their former selves!
3) Pendor Enhanced: https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6594
A collection that is closer in style to Dani's collection but attempts to fix a few bugs and does not implement as many tweaks.
Includes some minor graphical improvements.
Here's the list of tweaks applied: https://github.com/SlyCrackz/Pendor-Enhanced
4) Falkrun's Pendor ReVision: https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6596
What began as a custom assortment of tweaks has morphed into a complete overhaul, with a large list of additions. The author's goal is to expand upon the options available to the player, while maintaining a sense of lore and balance.
Some notable features include: a rebalanced Al-Aziz expansion, a firearms expansion, Noldor spouses, and bringing your wife along as a full companion.
As of the latest version, all major factions, and many minor ones, have been overhauled. Archery has also seen a rebalance.
The full list of changes can be found on the mod's Nexus page.
5) Snarvix's Unofficial Patch: https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6693
Combines a selection of quality-of-life and bug-fix tweaks into a single package
Maintains the original balance and style of Pendor
All changes are listed in full detail on the mod page.

Tweak Requests (please help if you can)
Expand

This is a collection of requests from various people (including me) about making more tweaks. If you can make any of these yourself, then I'd like to ask for your help. Either post down below, or write me a PM here, on Taleworlds forum or on Discord. It would be very much appreciated, thank you in advance! - Gorvex

The main tweak request categories:
1. Spawns
2. Knighthood Orders
3. Player, lords, vassals, companions
4. Troops, NPCs
5. Battles
6. Kingdom and fief management
7. Items
8. Miscellaneous


Spawns
To tweak the spawn rate of the remaining armies and unique spawns (Burilgi, Oswald, Boris, Meregan, Alaric, Kodan, Shalavan and Syla are already covered)
Adjust the actual chance of unique spawns spawning (i.e. not the frequency of the trigger)
Be able to hire unique spawns as mercenary companies just as other kings can. The choices should be from among those that are not present on the world map at the given time, which haven't been exiled, and whose faction you have neutral (0) or positive relations with.
Increase the starting strength of the 4 minor factions to be destroyed (Snake Cult, Heretics, Jatu, Mystmountains) or decrease the strength reduction factors for defeating their spawns
Increase the faction strength recovery rate of Snake Cult, Heretics, Jatu and Mystmountain Tribes
Minor factions becoming their own faction upon successfully sacking a town: full garrison reinforcement and more armies/warbands spawning from the conquered town over time
Unique spawns with NPC leaders train the troops in their party just like lords can do
Make Peasant Revolt Armies a victory condition, needed to be destroyed in order to win the game (mark on victory progress report) as they are hostile to your kingdom
Add custom conversation lines to encounters with Inquisition parties (just like in case of KOs)
Make Rasmus Devatica and any Inquisition Army able to convert non-Heretic, non-D'Shar, non-Singalian and non-Mercenary party members and prisoners into Inquisition units (which exactly, depends on the converted unit's level). Similarly to how Eyegrim the Devourer can convert living troops to undead.
Change the patrolling area or the patrolling radius of minor factions (e.g. so that unique spawns and armies can envade other territories without the need to get lured there)
Be able to control all sorts of friendly spawns (militia patrols, KO, CKO and Stronghold patrols + war parties, mercenary companies) with commands like "follow me", "hold this position", "patrol that fief", "give me your prisoners", "leave all prisoners in that walled fief", "let's exchange troops", etc.
Change the relation threshold towards the Noldor too (special exception) regarding when you can attack them.
Upon joining the D'Shar Principalities as a mercenary or vassal, reset the relation with the Singalians to 0. Singalians and D'Shar are allies (have 50 relations vica versa), so the player shouldn't be attacked by Singalians when being part of the D'Shar Principalities.
Make Singalian parties unable to attack trade caravans and peasants (of any kingdom): they shouldn't weaken the D'Shar's (their ally) economy
Limit the party size of spawns that get hired by kings as mercenary companies: 2000 seems to be a nice cap.
Make mercenary company leaders capturable: while being your prisoner, other kings (including yourself) should not be able to hire that mercenary company, and the only choosable reward in exchange for the freedom of the leader should be a medium pouch of diamonds (worth 50k denars)
Allow bandit factions to group up under a leader NPC (create a leader for each), following his party
Increase the amount of troops that can join you in bandit lairs
Disable bandit lairs from spawning
Fix the issue of bandit lairs dropping loot from your killed/KO-d troops as well
Fix the issue about the party size of huge armies/lords not adding up sometimes between the number seen on the world map and the number seen in the party composition: https://i.servimg.com/u/f11/19/75/99/36/troops12.jpg
Sort the order of troop and prisoner stacks by level in the party of every spawn (except the player ofc) on the world map, so that it's always the more elite units that join the battle first, and that it's the higher ransomed troops that get offered to take first.
Be able to mutually exchange troops and prisoners with village farmer parties (both in your own kingdom and the faction you joined, requires new conversation option to be created)

Knighthood Orders
When you get promoted to grandmaster rank of a KO, be able to induct the required troops into the KO you joined at the Order Stronghold too (at Constable Valorian)
Once becoming grandmaster of a KO, as long as you can maintain 30+ relations with the Noldor, make them stop attacking each other if they were enemies before (relations set to 0). The only 2 exceptions should be the Silvermist Rangers (have positive relations with the Noldor by default) and your CKO (automatically copy your own relations with other factions)
Make a new dialogue option in the War Room menu to ask the residing knighthood order with relations of (-10) or higher to send out a patrol that belongs to their own faction (and not to a kingdom)
Give unique armor sets to the player upon becoming the grandmaster of certain KOs (reaching 300 rank points) and speaking to the officer knight. Just like it happens with other promotions
Additional passive training system for your CKO troops, happening along the midnight party training and while resting/waiting. Stats increase gradually (% chance for success), up to the following limits:
21 Strength and 21 Agility
350 weapon proficiencies
7 points in Ironflesh, Power Strike, Power Throw, Power Draw, Shield, Athletics, Riding, Horse Archery skills
Be able to buy the highest possible modifiers for the currently equipped items of your CKO units, taking 2 weeks each:
70,000 denars for helmet
100,000 denars for armor
50,000 denars for gloves
50,000 denars for boots
100,000 denars for horse
60,000 denars for shield
80,000 denars for weapon
Change the requirements for buying KO armor sets (e.g. the +30 relations)
Once the unlock for the Mettenheim Arbalest happens for your CKO, be able to buy it and Mettenheim Bolts in numbers from Quartermaster Kailin, similarly to Arquebus and Bullets. Lock the latter two behind an Arquebus unlock as well for consistency and credibility.
Increase the mini CKO creation probability of lords
Be able to take reward KO troops from the Bounty Hunt quest beyond the party limit
Change the target factions of the KO bounty hunt quests
Always get a KO war party from one of your owned KO chapters (the one at your capital by default) to assist you when you are a king/queen, regardless if you have a mercenary company hired or not. So make it possible to have a mercenary company and a KO war party assisting you at the same time, as a compensation for not being able to hire unique spawns as other kings can do
When a KO chapter you own decides to gather a war party for you, be able to chose which KO should it be among the ones you have neutral or positive (>=0) relations with
Adjust the respawn rate of KO War Parties after defeat: be able to make it instant if the player wishes, i.e. have another one get set up asap
Allow transferring the KO chapter from a given walled fief to another you own. If there is a KO chapter in the designated walled fief, then overwrite with the one transferred over. There could be a considerably high cost to this, something between 50,000 and 100,000 denars.
Allow accessing the chest in the Order Stronghold after getting rebuilt (takes 2 months)
Make a cheat menu version for unlocking all the unlockable items for your CKO at once

Player, lords, vassals, companions
Be able to break out lords from prison even from the walled fiefs of the faction that you joined as a vassal
Make so that trying to break out lords from prison immediately decreases your relation with the given faction by -2, and by -5 with the owner of the fief
Revise the escape chances of lords from the captivity of the player, so that escape chances get progressively lower until 10 Prisoner Management and a Prison Tower being built, where it becomes 0%
Adjust the chances of lords escaping from other lords' parties (the tweak in section 15 is only for the player's prisoners)
Change the ratio of ‘relation/honor’ towards good-natured and upstanding lords.
Be able to dedicate your victories in tournaments to your wife as well, increasing relations with her. Since you can already do that to any married lady, it feels weird that it's not an option towards your wife.
For every lady that the player started courting but did not marry in the end, get a massive relation hit towards the lady and her guardian, get challenged for a duel by the guardian the next time you meet him, and lose some honor regardless of the outcome
Ability to marry female companion-lords as a male character
Make male companions always accept your marriage proposal (as a female player character)
Add daughters and wives to the 5 kings and 5 claimants with the same mechanics/options that other ladies have, and make those daughters eligible to wed
Able to see the ladies' personality upon meeting them for the first time, and add the info to their character note afterwards
Allow poligamy (disable all checks for having a wife/husband already)
Some unique or magical items give bonuses to attributes (STR/AGI/INT/CHA) when worn. E.g. boots that give bonus to Agility, likewise sapphire rune armors/weapons, ruby gives bonus to Strength, etc.
The player is able to repair weapons and armor pieces up to their 'normal' form when the following requirements are met: 18 STR, 6 Power Strike, 6 Engineer (the closest to a 'craftsman' skill)
When the requirements are met, you get a notification that from now on, you can repair stuff
The camp menu option needs tools and iron in your inventory to become available: iron is consumed upon each use, tools upon every 3rd use
Armor pieces need 7, weapons need 5 days to repair
Overhaul of lords deciding to join other factions after their kingdom's defeat:
Always join the faction of which king they have the highest relation with (including the player)
If there would be multiple choices, decide upon the number of their former lord comrades
Upon joining the player's faction, make it happen via a confirmation window about accepting their services. Make them spawn in your court's castle hall only afterwards
Make kings give back reconquered fiefs to their original owner, as long as they remain in the faction
As king/queen, be able to take back distributed fiefs to reassign them to other vassals for as much relation points taken as it was granted previously. Also, make different types of fiefs have different weight in terms of relations, as follows:
Village: +5 / -5
Castle: +10 / -10
Town: +20 / -20
Be able to ask for peace from captured kings in exchange for their release
Add a toggle option to the mod options that terminates all ongoing wars (mass peace), and prevents wars from happening until you turn it off again. This option could be used by players who want to keep the given status quo of kingdoms until creating their own for example
Remove all requirements for being able to take kings' legendary weapons (no longer need to be a king/queen or to bring down the faction to less than 6 walled fiefs)
Make lords sell their prisoners for an increase to their wealth when they visit a town with a ransom broker in its tavern
Increase the wealth of lords belonging to a specific faction (extend 15 m)
Increase the 'ideal party size' cap of lords which limits the amount of troops they can have in total (and which causes the surplus rescued troops to get disbanded over time)
Make disbanded troops from the parties of kings and lords actually form Deserter parties, with the exact same combination and amount of units
Change the amount of renown lords can gain from being marshall, hosting feasts, and winning tournaments
Rework some requirements for asking lords to do various actions. For example, be able to ask favors as a mercenary captain or as a vassal/king of another kingdom if you have enough relations with the given lord.
Prevent lords from going into exile, or make them come back later on
Kings and claimants becoming vassals after their kingdom gets defeated (randomly join another kingdom as lords do)
Make claimants recruitable as your companions and vassals from the get-go via a new conversation option. Make it available with a high Persuasion skill (e.g. 7) for the sake of realism/logic
Be able to ask companion-vassals to give up their status and get back into your party
Disable the relation penalty when asking your vassals to change culture
Allow the companions with custom reinforcement templates to be asked to abandon them and use the given kingdom reinforcement templates that follow your chosen culture
Make all companions spawn into a tavern right away at the game's start and afterwards when your party is beaten or the companion got dismissed (currently there is chance for them by design to spawn where they can't be accessed)
Designate a given town for all companions to spawn in at a new game's start, and make them stay there until getting hired
Disable companion opinions/advices about lords (both text and voice acting)
Lock companions' morale at 100 all the way through (i.e. actions and conflicts can't reduce morale anymore)
Write a new backstory for Ansen, to make him have a Melitine origin
Add a special dialogue option to Lethaldiran about sending him on assassination tasks (he is known to excel in the art of assassination, let it be via poisoning food and what not):
can only target lord parties below 200 in size
can only target lord parties whom the player has -30 or lower relations
each assignment costs 50 denars per troop in the lord's party (at the given time). I.e. decomissioning a party of 200 men costs 10,000 denars
one assignment takes 2-7 days to complete, depending on the distance of the given lord when the task is given
when the time expires, remove the lord's party from the map temporarily, as if he got defeated and make Lethaldiran return to the player's party with the defeated lord as your prisoner (if possible)
maybe have a small failure chance (5%) that Lethaldiran returns without further results
Through special dialogue options, allow mercenary company leaders and the 3 arena fighters (Vezmora, Dranton, Kradus) to be hired as companions. Disable all special dialogue options for these NPCs, that normal companions have.
Add Galeas to the hideout (upgraded Old Ruins) as a wandering NPC, a refugee looking for work. Make him a recruitable companion, becoming a squire/assistant of yours who will never leave your side (cannot be taken from your party when defeated) and cannot be appointed as your vassal. With low stats and bare clothes as starting gear (sort of as is), similarly to Ansen. Special dialogues (ask to gather support, right to rule or weekly troops) disabled. He should be neutral towards other companions (no like/dislike actions)
Fix the following bug: when player is rebelling from a claimant who was successfully put on the throne as a king/queen, and the player decides to keep all his fiefs, the fief that triggered the option to rebel is stated that it's given to a vassal in the former faction, but like he was a vassal of the player. However it's the player who is taking that fief (like how it should happen), and Agathon Legatus is still a vassal of the Empire in the shown example:
https://i.servimg.com/u/f11/19/75/99/36/rebell10.jpg
https://i.servimg.com/u/f11/19/75/99/36/rebell11.jpg
Make Sir Darlion of Pendor (cough cough) actually create Kingdom of Pendor upon a successful rebellion, with Sarleon gettin eliminated as a faction. The player not being able to create his own version of Pendor afterwards doesn't need to be addressed.
Make claimants become their own party after starting their questline, with the first fief conquered given to them
Allow the player to hire Mercenary companies while being just a mercenary or a vassal for a kingdom.
Allow to player to make his/her own mercenary company: in-game submenu for your minister, where you can actually select the amount and kind of troops, as well as the leader NPC from a range of options:
party size limit based on a party strength threshold (i.e. total autocalc value). For optimization and choices
no Noldor (too strong)
no KO troops (KO war parties shouldn't be made redundant)
no zombies / demons (ruins intended immersion)
no Heretic or Snake Cult units (life-sworn enemies, would feel wrong)
Add full support for hiring multiple mercenary companies: make it possible to order different tasks to all of them
Upon getting to choose your banner, mark which banners are already taken by lords
Be able to choose the banner of kings as your own after their kingdom's defeat
Fix all the visual bugs around switching your banner mid-game. Any vassal who got his/her initial banner taken will have wrong ones displayed on the world map compared to the correct one seen in the character report screen. The shift can result in the take of the template banner (pure white), the ones that kings and claimants have, or even that of another lord, meaning that there can be multiple lords running with the same banner on the map if you do the swaps in a specific order.
Add a small right to rule bonus to stage 4, "a letter that changed your life forever" character creation option

Troops, NPCs
Add a "lost & found" NPC for bringing back your stolen goods and equipment (unique weapons, etc.) for a sum
Be able to ask for the whereabouts of Clarissa of Pent (sews capes) and Iris the Lotus (sells robes for wife) from traveller NPCs (just like you can ask for the location of Brother Randalf and Finneas de Digit).
Increase the amount of available clothes to dress up your wife with
To fix the issue with tweak 17 p) (Mauritz van Mettenheim III), where melee weapons get offered with modifiers that are not supposed to appear on them. Most often 'Strong' and 'Heavy' on swords and polearms.
Rewrite tweak 17 p) (Mauritz van Mettenheim III) to make similar NPCs for Veccavia, Barclay and Melitine. Including horses added to the available items, with the correct modifiers.
Upon reaching +5 relations with a tavernkeeper, get the following discounts from him/her:
Info to get the sighting report of spawns costs 300 denars
Baggage train costs 500 denars (as if you owned a walled fief)
Buying wine for everyone (increases relation with the town) costs 500 denars
Buying ale and entertainment for your men costs 5 denars per troop
Add the troops of other minor factions to the respective "Troop Tree" report as well
Be able to take troops offered by slave traders beyond the party limit (the ones from rumors)
Change the raw food consumption of troops (the amount of troops fed with 1 unit of food)
Show how many units of food you have overall and how many days worth it is to feed your party (like in Perisno)
Be able to sell troops in your party to lords (for more money than upgrading them from the beginning would take)
Modify the requirements needed for a lord/vassal to follow you (relations, personality and whatnot)
All lords that are not KO-d and have an active (non-wounded) troop count of at least 50, answer the call of the marshall and follow him loyally all the time, regardless of personality
Nearby allied lords don't join the fight with you if the enemy has less than 50 troops
Be able to exchange troops and prisoners with friendly KO patrols: 'Secular Knights' (independent), 'Errant Knights' (kingdom-tied) and 'Stronghold KO patrols'
Be able to take the already knocked out (pre-battle) troops too as prisoners
When fighting with allies, the amount of troops that their and your party knocked out does not sum up to the total amount of prisoners distributed in the end. Many just disappear, which is unfair. Fix this issue
When fighting with allies, make the distribution of knocked out troops (i.e. prisoners) at the end of the battle happen according to the autocalc strength ratio of your and your ally's party
Extend the "overhaul of hiring rescued prisoners" tweak towards recruiting prisoners
As an alternative, make prisoners and rescued prisoners be recruitable only if their level is lower or equal to your level
Allow those prisoner knights to be rescued that you are part of their order
Disable troop desertions under low morale
Once a week, be able to buy 3 Noldor Hunters for a cost of Noldor Trade Goods from Arandur at Elacrai. The requirement is to have 50+ relations with the Noldor
Add a quest to Sadren's "I have many questions about the Noldor... -> Ask about more information" conversation option, upon reaching 90+ relations with the Noldor. It's an empty option, craving for something to be there.
Increase the average quality of restocks for Quigfen and Calanon
Remove the mix-genderization for Fierdsvain units
Make females among mix-gendered troops have the pretty female face (e.g. when Noldors are made mix-gendered)
Be able to view the item pool of the troops you speak to.

Battles
Penalties for friendly fire:
-1 renown per hit
-2 renown per knock-out (due to surgery)
-5 renown per kill (surgery fail)
Turn off friendly fire against your own or allied troops (just as melee weapons can't do damage to them)
Disable troops from charging after the player getting knocked out. Instead, keep the previous orders.
For allied battles, change the contribution of your own party per reinforcement wave (change the ratio of friendly:allied troops)
Reduce the size of combat log messages so that they occupy less space on your screen (smaller font and spacing)
Looting system from Viking Conquest brought to PoP (take more loot for a morale hit, take all the loot for yourself for a massive morale hit, take none of the loot for a morale bonus, and the native option)
Pick up all the loot (up to your free inventory space) with one click, sorted by cost (more expensive items taken first)
Bodysliding into any of your soldiers each time you get taken out
Horse speed scaling (horse will become slower and slower as it gets wounded)
Disable the mechanic of horses getting lamed when taken down from under the player
Riderless horses fleeing from the battle map
Make the battle minimap appear on screen even with the tactical overlay turned off
Fleeing mechanic overhaul (in field battles):
Set the chance for enemy troops deciding to flee, based on their party strength relative to your own
Make the fleeing enemy troops offer to surrender to you, resulting in them becoming capturable prisoners
The player can't be captured as prisoner, wounded companions and troops do not get disbanded, your party just remains on the scene
Adjust the chance of getting recognized while trying to sneak into fiefs (instead of just disabling the feature)
Change the impact of Athletics skill, so that it favors troops with low armor (=run faster) much more than troops with high armor
New mechanics for Ironflesh skill: heal at ironflesh_point/minute rate and reduce the damage received at 3%/ironflesh_point rate
A hotkey that allows you to heal a given amount of hp, which scales with either your level or strength, and has a 2-min cooldown on use
Various features from PBOD (Pre-Battle Orders and Deployment, project of Caba'drin) https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php?topic=142816.0
pre-battle orders & deployment, so that you have all the time it takes to set up everything the way you want
select which and how many troops from your party should participate in battle
split one troop type into two divisions
automatic volley-fire (wait for each other and fire continously until further orders, and not just only once per command) which also works with 'left', 'middle' and 'right' flanks
'Skirmish' (new order)
'Brace spears' (new order which works for all troops with such weapons, and not just for the 1st line)
'Use shields' (new order)
shield bash (tweaked, to not be OP: have a longer cooldown and only stun people (like kicks do), instead of knocking them down)
ranged weapon profs lowered under bad weather conditions
more accurate 'Hold' (F1) flag
customizeable deathcam
Be able to order your units to use 1-handed weapons, 2-handed weapons or polearms (just like you can order them to use blunt weapons)
When you order your companions to prefer blunt weapons, make it so that they use the weapon in the upmost slot, instead of the one they find best. That way, you can control them to achieve better results, like using short axes in sieges instead of longswords.
Be able to apply custom formations ('shieldwall', 'square', 'ranks', 'wedge') to any division/group based on their guarantee item flags, not just 'infantry', 'archers' and 'cavalry'
To make troops assigned to the 'Fodder' group never show up in battles
Extend PoP's battle AI to custom divisions too, so that neither troops that you've put into a custom division will get ordered to 'Charge!' by the enemy right from the start (abandoning formations and defensive positions). If possible, make the AI recognize the different troop types by scanning their guarantee item flags and not the division they are in ('infantry'/'cavalry'/'archers')
Disable the retreat penalties in sieges and field battles (a tactical retreat should not be considered as a dishonorable act)
Loop the 1st song getting played in field battles infinitely (the thematical song)
Add the preparation time of building ladders for unique spawns besieging towns and for launching a surprise attack against Elacrai (don't be instant anymore)
Make lords take longer preparations before launching a siege assault (slow down the building time of siege towers and ladders for the AI)
Be able to adjust reinforcement waves for sieges by 2 instead of 4 (just as the way it is for field battles)
Allow the player to join a siege defense even if the attackers are not the enemies of the player
Disallow archers from automatically taking defender points, allow full control over them
Add "townguard" units to the defenders of a siege, similarly to how it happens in case of farmers joining in against a village raid. 50 troops for castles and (100) for towns, with a ratio of 50% melee and 50% ranged units. Troops should be of lvl 20 baseline quality, from the corresponding faction's commoner troop tree:
25(50) Sarleon Longbowman and 25(50) Sarleon Armored Footman
25(50) Ravenstern Warden and 25(50) Ravenstern Man-at-Arms
50(100) D'Shar Horseman (can spawn with bows or throwing weapons, other units are too low or too high quality for lvl 20 baseline)
25(50) Fierdsvain Skirmisher and 25(50) Fierdsvain Axeman
25(50) Empire Levy Skirmisher and 25(50) Empire Heavy Infantry
25(50) Pendor Heavy Bowman and 25(50) Pendor Swordsman
Upon a successful siege defense, the prisoners of the defeated attackers get automatically recruited to the garrison even if you were the owner of the defended fief. Resulting in getting unwanted surplus units to pay wages for, which are time-consuming to disband. Disable this auto-recruitment for the fiefs you own.
Upon a successful siege assault with the player's participation as either a marshall, or a king/queen, let the leftover rescued prisoners pay their gratitude by joining the garrison of the given town/castle.
When there are 10 or less defenders remaining in a siege assault, and you retreat (e.g. because there are some enemies stuck inside a wall), then make those remaining troops automatically surrender, without causing you any penalties (honor or renown)
Reduce the AI's sieging activity separately from campaign AI settings, for the purpose of lengthened kingdom survivals
When you rescue Noldor prisoners from captivity, let there be a notification about their gratitude (a harsh response at negative relations and an actually welcoming one at positive relations) and get a relation boost of +1 per every 3 rescued Noldor troop.
Get +1 honor for releasing common Noldor prisoners too (not just nobles)
Remove the doubled autocalc bonus of the Noldor towards the player
At Elacrai, upon the training with Vendethiel, allow you to select multiple fights (up to 10) in advance, so that you don't have to cycle through the same conversations over and over again all the time. The time interval between each fight could be tweakable too.
Change the amount and kind of units that attack you during night ambushes
Upon each completion of the "rescue the village" mission, get a random armor piece from the selection of Rogue Blackheart Knights as loot
Replace Rogue Blackheart Knights with Rogue Blackheart Squires in village infestations
Add a slow ammo recovery trigger for all battles (mostly for throwing weapons)
Make a post-battle kill counter for non-hero (killable) troops as well, which gets summed up for stacks (if more than 1 unit of a given troop participated in battle). It could be useful for various battle performance testing too
Decrease the time until lances can be couched again

Kingdom and fief management
Kingdom restoration feature: https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,68861.msg1784247.html#msg1784247
Trade agreement and alliance forming feature from Diplomacy (or make something similar to that)
Make all the 4 "major" minor factions (i.e. Mettenheim, Veccavia, Barclay and Melitine) and the Noldor to be choosable kingdom cultures upon creating your own kingdom, with their own reinforcement templates, kingdom banner, common (at villages) and noble troops (at walled fiefs, these being the top-tier unit) available for hire
Make Elacrai a capturable castle for your faction. But only by you initiating the siege.
Be able to choose another crown if you wish, upon changing culture (costs 300.000 denars)
Be able to send a messenger to your vassals with orders to patrol around a fief, follow you, go to a location, besiege a given walled fief, etc. The option should be primarily available via the 'camp' -> 'take an action' menu (when on the world map), but also via your minister (when at your court)
Be able to convince vassals to join your faction more reliably, regardless of their personality or their relation with their king (or just reduce the thresholds for rejecting the invitation)
Change the content threshold (when relations stop deteriorating) for 'martial' and 'cunning' lords (3 fiefs by default)
Be able to keep the original titles of the lords that joined your kingdom from the start of the game (Dux, Legatus, Jarl, Baron, Duke, etc.)
Add a war declaration to the tweak about keeping fiefs after being released from your oath, as your king would not let you off the hook that easily.
Conscription feature: once every two weeks, be able to recruit a batch of common troops (corresponding to your faction) at the 'War Room' menu for a cost of a baggage train and 5000 denars. The tier and kind of the received troops should always have a wide variety and they should all be at least lvl 15
Be able to abort the month-long troop recruitment order ("Send your quartermaster to recruit from my surrounding villages for a month") at your castle steward.
As a vassal, be able to give back fiefs to your king (e.g. unwanted villages)
Make your vassals not lose relations with you when giving fiefs to other lords, regardless of their personality
To be able to manage the garrison of castles/towns (give or take troops) even if you are not the owner of the fief, but you are a vassal/king of the same faction. This includes unassigned fiefs too
Disable the automatic garrison refill completely
Add an automatic garrison reinforcement also for the player, his faction, and for the kingdom he joined as a vassal or a mercenary (when the player participates in sieges)
Hide the garrison of fiefs that do not belong to the player or his/her kingdom, so that you can't see the amount and kind of stationed troops and thus sieging becomes more of a challenge/surprise
Limit the number of prisoners in a garrison to a specific ratio compared to the current garrison. 400 soldiers guarding 2000 prisoners is not realistic
Disable regular prisoner troops escaping from walled fiefs over time. The requirement could be a Prison Tower being built.
Once the reconstruction of Old Ruins into your Hideout finishes, make it become a full-pledged castle (map icon of a castle, ability to build fief improvements and a KO chapter, no garrison limit, etc.). But keep it unsiegeable, as it wouldn't make much sense if you could potentially lose it and if your troops stored there won't be safe anymore. It's meant to be a "Hideout" (demilitarized zone of your own) for a good reason.
Add a base of operations for the following factions, with the following mechanics:
Jatu: a randomly appearing bandit lair in their area (with a custom name), with parties spawning from it periodically until getting looted. Then another one gets created somewhere else after some cooldown, if they still have enough faction strength (otherwise no). The inner scene could be that of a D'Shar village, with an option to visit or raid. With a massive amount of Jatu Warlords and Battle Riders wandering inside, turning hostile to you when you decide to raid. A mix of Jatu, Mystmountain and Noldor items could be added to the post-battle loot screen, as well as occasional rescued Noldor Hunters as a rare treat. Each time you raid their base, you get -20 relations with them.
Mystmountain Tribes: a similar implementation to that of the previous one, a mountain bandit hideout scenery appearing randomly in the snowy mountains. With Mystmountain Shamans and Bearclaw Berserkers guarding it, giving you Ravenstern and Mystmountain loot upon conquering, with an occasional rescued Ravenstern Lady in waiting or two as a rare treat. Each time you raid a hideout, you get -20 relations with them.
Heretics: a hidden stronghold (only visible if you get close enough) in Sarleon's territory, that gets razed to the ground after you conquer it (disappearing similarly as Elacrai, but for good), giving you massive Heretic loot, including multiple Heretic Writings in the end. And multiple Sarleon Ladies in waiting as rescued prisoners (from supposed rituals) too. The guarding units could be a mix of Demonic Magni, Heretic Invokers, High Priest (trp_heretic_lair_leader), Magni, Worshipers and Minions, with increasing numbers in this order, counting around 1000 in total. Scenery could be that of any other Sarleon castle. You suffer -100 relations with Heretics in the end (cannot be repeated after your first success, and in case of failure, the garrison gets replenished)
Inquisition: a stationary and always visible stronghold in the mountain pass between Sarleon and Singal, having the scenery of the fortified Order Stronghold, as it's an unused and unique siege layout. With 1000 units guarding it, being a mix of Inquisitors, War Priests, Mercenary Sergeants, Mercenary Sharpshooters and Battle Brothers, their numbers increasing in this order. Requiring you to have negative relations with them to be able to besiege it, and giving you -100 relations when conquering it (in case of failure, the garrison gets replenished). But this time, you get to keep the Stronghold as your own at any point in the game, allowing you to store your troops for 50% of their wages. It shouldn't count towards your faction's holding, and thus it shouldn't be attackable by the AI either. Basically having the world map mechanics of the Order Stronghold, with unlocked garrison and without those special NPCs. You could also get a bit of Inquisition and mercenary loot, and multiple D'Shar Ladies in waiting as rescued prisoners.
Disable all the penalties (including relations) for robbing/raiding/tolling caravans at times of war and peace (extend tweak 4 a)
After you save a village from a raiding lord, get a boost in relations with the village as a token of their gratitude
The ability to refuse the cow reward (Betsy) during the "Save the elder's daughter" quest, for more relations and some honor instead.
Train village peasants quest also gives some prosperity upon successfully defeating the occupying bandits
Fix the following issue: when you have positive relations with a village, but you lose some points which would still leave you in the positive region, then you'll get new recruits to hire. The reason is because the option to get new recruits is triggered by a change of relations, but it doesn't matter currently in which direction. While it should imo (only if a relation increase happened)
Fix the following issue: after getting an invitation to vassalage with a promised village and then starting a claimant questline (rebellion) for another kingdom, the village will switch side to the rebel kingdom, becoming a solo village faction. And if you then abandon the rebellion, the village will go to the respective counterpart kingdom, and not to the original owner.
Be able to send Gold Bars through your steward to other factions as a token of goodwill to fix relations. The rate should be +2 relation / gold bar towards the 5 kingdoms and +4 relation / gold bar towards minor factions
New fief improvement bonuses
each Tax Collector Office built could reduce your global tax inefficiency by 5%, down to 30% maximum tax inefficiency (with 7 Tax Collector Offices built)
Shrines allowing you to recruit Monks occasionally (low numbers)
Monasteries allowing you to recruit Battle Brothers occasionally (medium numbers)
Chapels allowing you to recruit Clerics occasionally (low numbers)
Churches allowing you to recruit War Priests occasionally (medium numbers)
Cathedrals (the most expensive and basically useless improvement) allowing you to recruit Inquisitors occasionally (high numbers)
Have the ability to tax your vassals when being king/queen. A percentage of taxes from your people usually go to the treasury (your own purse). Maintaining a stable and florishing kingdom should have its monetary rewards.
Be able to build fief improvements in any fief that belongs to your own kingdom, regardless if it has an owner or not
Allow horses to be put into the chests in castle halls (for towns and castles alike), in order to give a virtual horsekeeping functionality to stables.

Items
Separate the effects of the Dust of Twilight to be selectable which to pick at a time and also make all effects provided at the same time
Add an achievement prompt when receiving Ullr'Vetr Manifest
Make scabbards for the following swords:
Falchion - falchion_new
Singalian_Noble_Sabre - pa_pop_harad_khopesh
Two_Handed_Sword - sword_two_handed_a
Two_Handed_Sabre - khergit_sword_two_handed_a
Two_Handed_Heavy_Sabre - khergit_sword_two_handed_b
Mettenheim_Dueling_Sword - hyren3
Fierdsvain_Berserker_Sword - celtic2h3
Empire_Great_Sword - ashenborn_sword_1 (until the first cross section)
Flame_Bladed_Sword - flamesword1 (until the first cross section)
Noldor_Warsword - pa_pop_sword_45
Ravenstern_Great_Sword - flamerenov5 (until the first cross section)
Zweihander - my_zweihander
Ebony_Flamberge - darkzweihander1 (until the first cross section)
Make a white variant of the Witch_Armor (itm_dead_witch_armor), available for your CKO (rare merchandise)

Miscellaneous
Change rumor interval mechanics, so that how often and how many useful rumors you can get under a period of time. Also, make it so that all rumor providers have a chance to trigger unique spawns
Move the random skill bonuses to a separate script, and have a trigger for it specifically, in order to be able to adjust their frequency of popping
Increase the amount of cows to deliver to villages, to fasten their prosperity increase and their goods production rate
Point-based tournament system from Floris mod, with no more troops allowed to participate in the next round than previously
Castles that have ongoing feasts also have tournaments to participate in. The chosen arena for the scene should be that of the closest town within the same kingdom.
Remove the gained experience reduction that happens in tournaments, arenas and training fields (you get only 1/10 of the actual experience per kill)
Add the amount of tournaments won to the character report screen (to be able to keep track of the respective achievement)
Create the two other Noldor lords, Faergwethanir and Caelvanir with stats similar to Aeldarian and Ithilrandir, and add them to Elacrai's castle hall and tournament as participants, similarly to how Vezmora, Kradus and Dranton are
When you win a Noldor Tournament at Elacrai, increase the relations with the Noldor (by 5?) instead of the castle itself
Arena fight overhaul: be able to fight in your own equipment, enemies become actual troops of good quality, elite units may join the fray as well randomly
Everyone fights in his/her own equipment during tournaments. As an alternative, allow to choose which tournament weapon (wooden and blunt) you get for each round
Expand the level-multiplier changing tweak for garrisons and lords too
Change the default castle guards (before KO chapters get built). For Pendor, it should be Pendor Bladesmen instead Pendor Man-at-Arms
Edit achievement bonuses and their value
The last achievement for beating the game ("The (your kingdom's name) has defeated all rivals and stands as the sole kingdom. The Prophecy of Madigan has been fulfilled!.... An alternate probability has been created.") shouldn't appear if you are not a king/queen of your own kingdom.
Add a ferry transport system between Ravenstern-Rane-Avendor-Marleons and Cez-Janos-Ishkoman-Nal Tar as travelling shortcuts for a modest price, depending on your party size. Either by having actual boats shown as they travel with time passing (at least as fast as the fastest world map riding speed, regardless if it's day- or nighttime), or by having the screen fade with a teleport happening to the destination (with some time spent by a fast waiting cycle perhaps). The travel option should be made available through the town's menu.
Fix the cheat about spawning unique spawns with signature patrols, as the patrols appear from the player's party instead of the given unique spawn
More features from Diplomacy mod, the most commonly asked mod to be incorporated into PoP: https://mountandblade.fandom.com/wiki/Diplomacy
Make any mutually exclusive tweaks compatible with each other (e.g. the troop recruitment overhauls that touch the party_add_party_prisoners script)
Make the options within "Testers' cheatmenu" be accessible without edit mode
Add the following instant kingdom control options to the cheatmenu:
make peace between two factions
make a border incident between two factions
make a faction declare war on another faction
At the beginning of a new playthrough, lock down diplomacy for a given amount of days, meaning that kingdoms can't declare war on each other until that time passes. For those who want to take it slow in terms of preparations, without having to worry about the status quo breaking up in the meantime
Incorporate as many tweaks to the Mod options menu as possible (make them toggleable from in-game)

Editing Tools
Expand
The tools to be found here:
1. TweakMB
 1.1. Installation and Use
 1.2. Warning
2. Morgh's Editor
3. Barracks Editor
4. OpenBRF
5. Savegame Editor / Converter
 5.1. Capabilities
 5.2. Installation and Use
 5.3. Useful Info
6. WarBender
 6.1. Features
 6.2. Installation and Use


TweakMB (author: Alex Toews (kefka95))

This program provides an easy-to-use interface for modifying the module text files of the game. It's a bit outdated, but some of its tweaks still work with Prophesy of Pendor v3.9.5.1. You'll see that these will be editable, while the rest will be greyed out. But don't worry, all of those incompatible tweaks are now updated too and you can find them in the lists down below! So feel free to explore the various tweaks you can make with this editor! Those that you can actually make with this tool won't be listed down below, as it's fail-safe and easier to perform them with TweakMB. Plus the descriptions within the program are plentiful.

Installation and Use
Download the program from here: https://www.mbrepository.com/download.php?id=1751&f=TweakMB.zip
Extract the downloaded .zip file to any location on your computer, then run "TweakMB.exe"
Once opened, press the "Load Module (Warband)" button in the top right corner
Select "Prophesy of Pendor 3.611" and click "Continue"
Browse the location of your installed Prophesy of Pendor mod (the folder of the mod itself)
(Steam Workshop mods are installed here: Program Files \ Steam \ steamapps \ workshop \ content \ 48700)
Allow the "Loading Progress" window to stop processing, and click on "Close" once it is done
The available tweaks can be seen in the left panel. Click on them to see what they do
You can make as many tweaks one after the other as you'd like to, you won't have to save your changes one by one. Once you are done with tweaking however, click on the "Save Changes" button and click "Yes"
Once again, allow the "Loading Progress" window to stop processing, and click on "Close" once it is done
Close the program (X)

WARNING

Do not use the 'Quests' -> 'Guild Master Quests' -> 'Add "Meet with Guild Master" to the city menu' tweak, as it's part of the game by default, but TweakMB does not recognize it. Checking the option will make things get corrupt if performed and you'll get a runtime error.

Morgh's Editor (author: Morgh)

You can make a number of tweaks with Morgh's Editor too. Everything you need to know can be found on the separate page of the editor.

Barracks Editor (author: lconracl)

This tool is similar to Morgh's Editor and offers roughly the same options for changes you can make. Usually what you can't open/edit with Morgh's Editor (like the inventory of lords), you can do with Barracks Editor and vica versa (like party templates), so the best is to use the two editors in conjunction with each other. The interface is not as much user-friendly, however this editor has its further advantages over Morgh's Editor (i.e. sorting entries by certain values and flags, exporting files to Excel, etc.), which are very handy and open up a vast amount of new possibilities. You can read these (along with some important notes on the use and installation) here, where you can find download links too: https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,117997.msg2848840.html#msg2848840

OpenBRF (author: mtarini)

This is the best tool to edit and preview the .brf files of the game (textures, meshes, and animations) in a relatively simple manner. Everything you need to know, plus download links can be found here: https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,72279.msg1878649.html#msg1878649

Savegame Editor / Converter (author: kushulain)

M&B Savegame Editor / Converter is a tool which lets you edit your savegame files and you can also convert them from a mod's version to another. However note that the bigger of an overhaul a mod is, the less doable the conversion will be. Which is exactly the case with PoP, so you can't fully export over every progress data from an older version to a newer one, some will be reset to their default value. For the conversion, you will need both new and old versions of the given mod installed and a brand new save from the newer version of the mod that the program will use as a template.

Capabilities (just to name a few)
Repair corrupted saves (the bigger the overhaul, the less doable the process gets, so not advised for PoP)
Edit any troop's (common and hero units alike) stats beyond the default limit (1000+ weapon profs and 63+ attributes)
Edit the equipment of otherwise inaccessible NPC-s (like lords since v3.9)
Add any item to your inventory or any piece of equipment to NPC-s
Add modifiers to any item in your inventory or any equipment of NPC-s
Reset companion interactions to their default state (companions' morale can be reset, like if you just hired them and they can act like you never met them before)
Bring back lost or exiled companions, lords and kings to the game
Bring back companion-lords to your party
Edit lords' personalities, wealth, relations, renown and what not
Edit your or any other party's (lords, unique spawns, patrols, warbands, caravans, etc.) party composition
Edit any walled fief's garrison on the map
Edit the courting progress with a lady
Restore a destroyed faction to a state of your choice
Edit your character creation choices and your rumor interval value
Edit your honor and renown rating
Edit the banner of any lord/king
Edit faction relations and troops' stats (including names and flags) in a savegame-compatible manner, that can't be achieved with Morgh's Editor
Edit the amount of Noldor tournaments you attended to
And so on. There are ~1600 more global variables in there that control various stuff.

Installation and Use
Download the program from here: https://www.moddb.com/games/mount-blade-warband/downloads/mount-blade-savegame-editor-converter
Extract the downloaded .zip file to any location on your computer, then run "MnBSaveGameEditor v1_03.exe"
To modify a savegame file:
Click on "Import new save..."
Browse and set the location of your installed Prophesy of Pendor mod (the folder of the mod itself) - (Steam Workshop mods are installed here: Program Files \ Steam \ steamapps \ workshop \ content \ 48700)
Then locate your savegame file belonging to that mod (in your "Documents" folder)
Click on "Load"
Allow the loading progress window to stop processing
Modify some values (divided into different categories). Note that you cannot add new entries, only modify existing values!
Once done, click on "Export current save..." and choose a savegame file to be overwritten with the changes you made
Click on "Save", "Yes" to overwrite, and press "OK" once you've been notified that the savegame was successfully exported
Close the program (X)
To convert a savegame file to a different version of the mod (more detail in the previous steps):
Load ("Import new save...") the older version of the mod and the save file you wish to convert
Then load the newer version of the mod and the save template created with it too
Click on "Convert save..."
Select the two save files ("Merge" = old save, "To" = new save), and check all the data you wish to convert. The less gets checked, the less bugs you may encounter. Going with the default settings should do it well enough (keep in mind that you won't be able to convert everything in case of PoP either way)
Click on "Convert" and wait for the process to finish
Click on "Export current save" and save it as a new savegame file (sg00 - sg08) into the savegame folder of the newer version. It is better to not overwrite anything this time!
Close the program (X)
In case of editing / converting savegame files, you may also do them when the game is running, but in that case, make sure that you quitted back to the main menu, so that none of the saves are loaded when you try to open them. After finishing with the edits, you may load the given savegame file just fine.

Useful Info

To learn how to edit skills, observe this demonstrating sheet, it really says all you need to know: https://i77.servimg.com/u/f77/19/75/99/36/mnbski13.jpg

Also, here are all the item modifiers that you can put into the item_flags entry of equipped or stored items (special thanks to Dalion!):

plain = 0
cracked = 16777216
rusty = 33554432
bent = 50331648
chipped = 67108864
battered = 83886080
poor = 100663296
crude = 117440512
old = 134217728
cheap = 150994944
fine = 167772160
well_made = 184549376
sharp = 201326592
balanced = 218103808
tempered = 234881024
deadly = 251658240
exquisite = 268435456
masterwork = 285212672
heavy = 301989888
strong = 318767104
powerful = 335544320
tattered = 352321536
ragged = 369098752
rough = 385875968
sturdy = 402653184
thick = 419430400
hardened = 436207616
reinforced = 452984832
superb = 469762048
lordly = 486539264
lame = 503316480
swaybacked = 520093696
stubborn = 536870912
timid = 553648128
meek = 570425344
spirited = 587202560
champion = 603979776
fresh = 620756992
day_old = 637534208
two_day_old = 654311424
smelling = 671088640
rotten = 687865856
large_bag = 704643072

And last but not least, here are the different lord personalities - that you can change - found in slot #52 of the given lord's entry under the "troops" section (also thanks to Dalion):

1 = martial
2 = quarrelsome
3 = selfrighteous
4 = cunning
5 = debauched
6 = goodnatured
7 = upstanding
8 = roguish
9 = benefactor
10 = custodian

WarBender (author: int19h)

WarBender is another popular save game editor for Mount & Blade Warband, capable to edit any module's save file.

Features
Allows editing all the data in the save file: factions, troops, parties, items...
User-friendly editing of troop skills and item modifiers
Multi-window interface to see and edit objects side by side
Bulk editing (select and edit multiple objects at once)
Quick search by name or ID
Supports all modules
Rich slot metadata provided out of the box for Native
Slot metadata is extensible via XML to enable it for other modules
Displays sizes in bytes of game objects as stored in the save file
Backed by a reusable .NET library with a public API

Installation and Use
Download the program from its homepage: https://github.com/int19h/WarBender/releases
Extract the downloaded .zip file to any location on your computer, then run "WarBender.UI.exe"
If the program refuses to launch, you might need to install .NET Framework 4.7 as mentioned on the homepage
Open a save file from C:\Users\YourName\Documents\Mount&Blade Warband Savegames\Prophesy of Pendor v3.9.5
Click 'Yes'. You'll find your character in Troops/Player and your party in Parties/YourName

Some screenshots:

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1175142/41222663-6fc53c0c-6d1c-11e8-8633-881255787187.png
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1175142/41221901-5eba35b8-6d1a-11e8-84d1-2b8f0b0f5eb0.png

Special thanks to Superres for providing some extra info about WarBender

Important Notes
All of the following tweaks were made for or updated to v3.9.5.1 (same version as the v3.9.5.6.zip downloaded from ModDB). Some might be compatible with previous versions too, but the majority are not, so proceed with caution! Those that work with other mods as is, or can be adjusted so relatively easily will be marked with green and blue respectively
It is mandatory to use Notepad++ for editing .txt and .csv files, as some tweaks will not apply properly with regular Notepad or MS Office and such! Also, Notepad++ has many QoL features that make it much easier to apply tweaks, such as the number of the line being displayed on the left for instance.
Make sure that you create regular backups of your tweaked files in case you screw something up, so that you won't have to revert all of your tweaks by copying back the original files. Furthermore, it may be possible that your tweaked savegame file won't be compatible with the original version of the mod anymore, which is another good reason for creating regular backups.
Beware that in case of certain tweaks, the piece of code to be searched for (to replace, delete, etc.) might be too long to fit into the search bar, resulting in the remaining part getting cut out. So proceed with caution and always make sure that everything is selected that needs to be!
The parts copy-pasted from this page might add an unwanted new line ('enter') if you have the extra gap/space selected in the end, splitting the given game code in two upon insertion. This creates unfunctional tweaks and severe bugs. To avoid this, when you select the whole piece to be copied, make sure you do so by having the highlight stop at the last number. Or, remove the extra 'enter' character after the insertion.

Current number of tweaks: 292 (check TweakMB for more!)




1. Spawns and Parties (23)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
1 a) To change the chances of capturing unique spawn leaders and lords, and view or remove the predetermined chances
1 b) To increase the relation threshold at which you can still capture unique spawn leaders
1 c) To tweak the spawn rate and delay of minor faction armies and some unique spawns
1 d) To be able to take Maltise's Asp Throwing Axes and Wolfbode the Slayer's axe for yourself when they get captured
1 e) To make Aeldarian, Ithilrandir and Maltise not leave Pendor after getting their special equipment
1 f) To change the party limit and growth rate of Eyegrim the Devourer
1 g) To change the composition of minor faction spawns to become more authentic and interesting
1 h) To change the circumstances of unique spawns deciding to sack a town
1 i) To add automatic notification messages about the location of unique spawns and minor faction armies
1 j) To change the cost of the sighting report info about spawns
1 k) To count the amount of enemy and allied units next to you on the world map
1 l) To change the frequency of various parties spawning onto the world map
1 m) To edit the spawning chance of Hired Assassins
1 n) To change the maximum number of various parties allowed on the world map at a time
1 o) To change the size of deserter parties
1 p) To change the level-multiplier of the player determining the size of various parties on the map
1 q) To change the number of troops that militia patrols can hold
1 r) To make militia patrols able to join you in fights against common enemies
1 s) To change the patrolling radius of various patrols
1 t) To prevent Noldor parties from attacking caravans, farmers and militia patrols
1 u) To make cattle move faster on the world map
1 v) To increase party map speed
1 w) To change your party size
1 x) To prevent hateful factions from disappearing until you unify Pendor


Tweak 1 a)

To change the chances of capturing unique spawn leaders and lords, and view or remove the predetermined chances - credits to VonDegurechaff, Vetrogor and Dalion

Every 120 hours, a random value between 0 and 100 (0...99) gets rolled and saved, let's call it "x". Once you defeat a unique spawn, the leader will be captured if x + (prisoner_management_skill * 5) >= 60. In case of lords, the value "x" is rolled after each battle per lord, so the chance to capture them isn't prerolled.

Regardless of the outcome of trying to capture a unique spawn leader, x gets immediately reset to a random value between 0 and 100. This is only done if you participate in that battle, not if some lords wreck the spawn without you. So if you never battle any spawn, that value "x" is only rerolled every 5 days. If you beat up one however, regardless of having actually captured the spawn-leader or not, the value is rolled again, independently of the usual 5-day cycle. It is also worth to note that if either Ithilrandir or Aeldarian is present in a battle against another unique spawn, then "x" is replaced with straight -100, meaning that unique spawn leaders will always escape after such fights. With this tweak, we can sort of bypass that penalty.

Files:

menus.txt
scripts.txt
quick_strings.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) To change the chances of capturing leader NPCs, open menus.txt and under the menu_total_victory, find this piece of code:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774956 60


To change the chances of capturing Eyegrim the Devourer and The Three Seers, open scripts.txt and within the party_calculate_loot script find the two instances of this piece of code:

4 0 30 2 1224979098644774957 60


The first instance is for Eyegrim, the second is for the three Seers. Change all of these values of 60 (3 instances in total) to one of the following, depending on the desired outcome:

-100: unique spawn leaders and lords will be always captured, regardless of your Prisoner Management skill or if a Noldor lord participated in the battle as well -> [-100 + (prisoner_management_skill * 5) >= -100] -> always true!
0: unique spawn leaders and lords will always be captured, regardless of your Prisoner Management skill, unless a Noldor lord participated in the battle as well against another unique spawn -> [x + (prisoner_management_skill * 5) >= 0]
50: unique spawn leaders and lords will always be captured at Prisoner Management = 10, unless a Noldor lord participated in the battle as well against another unique spawn -> [x + (10 * 5) >= 50]
150: unique spawn leaders and lords will never be captured, regardless of your Prisoner Management skill -> [x + (10 * 5) >= 150] -> never true, since x = 0...99!

2) To be able to view the current prerolled value (the aforementioned "x"), open quick_strings.txt and increase the counter at the top of the file by 1 (3139 -> 3140). Then add this entry to the end of the file, as a new line:

qstr_Current_preroll_valu Current_preroll_value:_{reg1}


Make sure there remains an empty line at the very end of the file! Then open simple_triggers.txt and replace any empty trigger (e.g. 2.000000 0 ) with this:

0.000000  5 4 0 71 1 28 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857278 1106 1 1585267068834417731 3 0 


In case you added another entry to quick_strings.txt due to another tweak, then make sure that 1585267068834417731 corresponds to 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_Current_preroll_valu from quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++). If you press 'enter' on the world map at any time, you should see the current preroll value.

3) Alternatively, you can remove the predetermined chances and allow to change the chances of capturing unique spawns separately from lords. To do this, in menus.txt, search for this piece of code:

menu_total_victory 0 You_shouldn't_be_reading_this..._{s9} none 475


And change that 475 to 477. Then, find this piece:

4 0 33 3 1224979098644774934 360287970189639980 360287970189639999 2133 2 1224979098644774956 144115188075857278 1 2 936748722493063906 0 5 0 2136 3 1224979098644774956 0 100 3 0 2170 3 1224979098644774957 2 360287970189639680 2107 2 1224979098644774957 5 2105 2 1224979098644774956 1224979098644774957 2147483678 2 1224979098644774956 60


And replace it with this:

2136 3 1224979098644774956 0 100 2170 3 1224979098644774957 2 360287970189639680 2107 2 1224979098644774957 5 2105 2 1224979098644774956 1224979098644774957 2147483678 2 1224979098644774956 60 2133 2 1224979098644774955 1 5 0 33 3 1224979098644774934 360287970189640185 360287970189640315 2136 3 1224979098644774956 0 100 2170 3 1224979098644774957 2 360287970189639680 2107 2 1224979098644774957 5 2105 2 1224979098644774956 1224979098644774957 2147483678 2 1224979098644774956 60


Then open scripts.txt and under the script called party_calculate_loot, find this piece of code:

2133 2 1224979098644774957 144115188075857278


Replace it with this:

2136 3 1224979098644774957 0 100


As always, watch for the gaps! Red values stand for unique spawns, blue ones for lords and kings. Set them up separately from each other if you wish:

0 100 (2 instances) and 0 100. The one in menus.txt is for spawns with leader NPCs, while the one in scripts.txt is for Eyegrim and Three Seers. The case of Noldor lords vs unique spawns cannot be adjusted here, as "x" will be a constant -100 as described above:
if replaced by 10 100, then the target NPC will always be captured with a prisoner management skill of 10
if replaced by 100 100, then the target NPC will always be captured
60 and 60 (assuming that you've left the 0 100 ranges intact): see point 1)

Tweak 1 b)

To increase the relation threshold at which you can still capture unique spawn leaders - credits to Leonion

File: menus.txt

1) Search for:

2190 3 1224979098644774950 1224979098644774949 432345564227567629 30 2 1224979098644774950 0


2) Change that 0 to whatever number you want to be this "edge" below which spawn leaders will still be capturable

Tweak 1 c)

To tweak the spawn rate and delay of minor faction armies and some unique spawns - credits to Leonion and BananaFruit

Note: the spawn rate can be affected only for the following parties/spawns:

GROUP A

Vanskerry Sea Raider Army
Peasant Revolt Army
Azi Dahaka Death Cult Marauders
Burilgi the Usurper
Oswald de Fleur
Boris the Raven
Meregan Kierlic (Griffonsword Adventure Company)
Alaric Von Brouhaha
Kodan Ironsword
Sheik Shalavan
Syla Uzas

GROUP B

Tercio Villaviciosia (Rufio Vincente de Villaviciosia)
Conquistadoros de Aventura
Obrist Heynrich
Freikorps Mettenheim
Mettenheim Expeditionary Force
The Renegade Witch Hunt (Verante Kruus)
Daughters of Persinoe
Melitine Invasion Force (Sebastokrator Kaspax)
Melitine Scouting Force

File: scripts.txt

1) To change the spawn rate for GROUP A, search for this piece of code under the script called spawn_signature:

2136 3 1224979098644774913 0 400


And decrease that 400 to increase the spawn rate. The scale is somewhat linear, so a 400 -> 100 decrease will end up in a 4x spawn rate (4x chance) roughly. But beware, don't go below 24, otherwise some unique spawns won't be able to spawn at all.

2) To change the spawn rate for GROUP B, search for the 4 instances of this piece of code under the script called spawn_renegade:

2136 3 1224979098644774920 0 100


Every 96 hours (4 days), a number between 0 and 100 is randomly chosen, and if it is below 10 (meaning a 10% chance), then a Barclay/Mettenheim/Veccavian/Melitine army will spawn, independantly from each other (hence the 4 different instances). The first instance governs the chance for Barclay, the second for Mettenheim, the third for Veccavian and the fourth for Melitine armies. As an example, to make the spawn rate of Mettenheim armies be 100% upon every 96 hours, change the 100 to 10 in the second instance.

Furthermore, you can set up how this chance gets distributed between the different kind of parties for each faction. For Barclay, find this piece:

95 2310 2 1224979098644774913 576460752303423522


There is a 95% chance to spawn Conquistadoros de Aventura and a 5% chance (the remaining, taken from 100) to spawn Rufio. If you want only Rufio to spawn, change that 95 to 0.

For Mettenheim, find this piece:

22 2310 2 1224979098644774913 576460752303423525 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 2 1100 2 1224979098644774917 576460752303423525 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774921 95


There is a 22% chance to spawn Freikorps Mettenheim, a 73% (95-22) chance to spawn Mettenheim Expeditionary Force and a 5% chance (the remaining, taken from 100) to spawn Obrist Heynrich. Change these number to your liking! E.g. to spawn Freikorps Mettenheim with 5% chance, Mettenheim Expeditionary Force with 15% and Obrist with 80% chance, change 22 to 5 and 95 to 20.

For Veccavia, search for:

95 2310 2 1224979098644774913 576460752303423529


There is a 95% chance to spawn Daughters of Persinoe and 5% chance (the remaining, taken from 100) to spawn Verante Kruus. Change that 95 to your liking!

And lastly, for Melitine, search for:

95 2310 2 1224979098644774913 576460752303423526


There is a 95% chance to spawn Melitine Scouting Force and a 5% chance (the remaining, taken from 100) to spawn Sebastokrator Kaspax. Once again, change this 95 to your liking!

3) By default, spawns can appear only after a preset number of days. To change the spawn delay, search for the following pieces of code for the respective factions:

Snake Cult (including The Dread Legion):

3 2147483680 2 1224979098644774914 14


The 14 is the amount of days that need to pass. If for example, you want them to show up only after 500 ingame days, then change the 14 to 500.

Heretic armies (including Eyegrim the Devourer and The Three Seers):

1224979098644774912 2 2147483680 2 1224979098644774914 14


Inquisition armies (including Holy Inquisitor Rasmus Devatica):

3 2147483680 2 1224979098644774915 14


Jatu armies (including Warlord Zulkar and K'Juda the Ravager):

30 2 1224979098644774912 3 2147483680 2 1224979098644774919 14


Mystmountain armies (including Wolfbode the Slayer):

1224979098644774912 2 2147483680 2 1224979098644774914 5


Noldor lords (Aeldarian and Ithilrandir):

63 1103 1 1 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 0 1000


They are a little different, as you can't set the delay time. You can only disable them from spawning into the game, by changing the 1000 to 980

Mettenheim, Barclay, Veccavian and Melitine armies (including the respective unique spawns):

648518346341351609 2136 3 1224979098644774921 0 100


Just like in case of the Noldor lords, they can only be disabled. For that, change the 100 to 20 in every occurrence of your choice. There are 4 instances of the above piece in the file, which control the following spawns in order:

№ 1:
Conquistadoros de Aventura
Tercio Villaviciosia (Rufio Vincente de Villaviciosia)
№ 2:
Freikorps Mettenheim
Mettenheim Expeditionary Force
Obrist Heynrich
№ 3:
Daughters of Persinoe
The Renegade Witch Hunt (Verante Kruus)
№ 4:
Melitine Scouting Force
Melitine Invasion Force (Sebastokrator Kaspax)

The remaining unique spawns and armies:

191 1103 1 1 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 0


Just like in case of the Noldor lords, they can only be disabled. For that, change the 0 to 24. There is only 1 such instance in the entire file, which controls the following spawns:

Burilgi the Usurper
Oswald de Fleur Adventure Company
Sir Boris the Raven
Griffonsword Adventure Company (Meregan Kierlic)
Alaric von Brouhaha
Kodan Ironsword's Adventure Company
Sheik Shalavan's Adventure Company
Syla Uzas
Vanskerry Sea Raider Army
Peasant Revolt Army

Tweak 1 d)

To be able to take Maltise's Asp Throwing Axes and Wolfbode the Slayer's axe for yourself when they get captured - credits to BananaFruit

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_blueprints


2) After that whole entry, add these two in form of a new line each:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_maltise_axes 69631 1659  3 2167 1 1224979098644774912 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639989 I_will_release_you_if_you_give_me_your_axes.  1660  2 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712922 42 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_wolfbode_axe 69631 1659  3 2167 1 1224979098644774912 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639988 I_will_release_you_if_you_give_me_your_axe.  1660  2 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713309 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 NO_VOICEOVER 


3) And increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 2 (4152 -> 4154)

Tweak 1 e)

To make Aeldarian, Ithilrandir and Maltise not leave Pendor after getting their special equipment - credits to Dalion

With this tweak, after asking Aeldarian for his Duskfall or Mystical Rune Plate, or Ithilrandir for his Havathang or Mystical Rune Plate, or Maltise for his Supreme Asp armor set, they won't leave Pendor anymore, allowing you to get further Qualis Gems, Large Pouches of Diamonds or more of these items. Aeldarian will get a Noldor Composite Bow and Ithilrandir will get a Noldor War Sword as a replacement for their unique weapons.

File: conversation.txt

1) For Aeldarian and Ithilrandir giving you their Duskfall and Havathang respectively, find the line that starts with dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_threat_retire.1, and replace it with this:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_threat_retire.1 69631 1659  4 1073741855 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639992 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639993 30 2 144115188075855914 1 2147484188 3 144115188075855892 500 1 You_can_return_to_your_homeland,_but_first_handle_me_your_weapon.  1661  17 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 5 1 2 936748722493063450 3 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639993 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713099 1531 2 360287970189639993 288230376151713099 1530 2 360287970189639993 288230376151713090 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639992 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712867 1531 2 360287970189639992 288230376151712867 1530 2 360287970189639992 288230376151712865 3 0 1 3 936748722493063445 432345564227567643 10 500 3 144115188075855892 500 1 NO_VOICEOVER


2) For Aeldarian and Ithilrandir giving you their Mystical Rune Plate, find this piece of code:

I_will_accept_your_armor.  1661  6 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 5 1 2 936748722493063450 3 1 2 936748722493063763 144115188075855892 1530 2


3) And for Maltise giving you her Supreme Asp armor set, find this piece of code:

You_should_return_to_your_homeland_and_not_take_up_arms_ever_again.  1661  9 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 5 1 2 936748722493063450 3 1 2 936748722493063763 144115188075855892 1530 2


4) Decrease the red numbers by 1 and delete the blue parts (1 2 936748722493063763 144115188075855892) in points 2) & 3). Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains at the place of the deleted content.

Tweak 1 f)

To change the party limit and growth rate of Eyegrim the Devourer - credits to lconracl and Dalion

By default - once a day - Eyegrim the Devourer converts 100% of his living party members (gained from rescued prisoners) and 25% of his prisoners into undead troops. Due to this, his growth rate may surpass that of any other unique spawn, given the circumstances. Up to around 5000 undead troops overall.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) First, find and observe this piece:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774924 5000 2171 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774920 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774925 31 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640034 5 0 30 2 1224979098644774925 26 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640033 5 0 30 2 1224979098644774925 15 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640032 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640031 3 0 1610 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1 3 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 1651 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 32 2 1224979098644774918 0 7 3 1224979098644774919 0 1224979098644774918 1656 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 1506 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 2147483679 2 1224979098644774921 3 2147485155 1 1224979098644774920 1657 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774922 2 2123 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 2 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1 3 0 1616 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774923 4 0 1601 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774912 2147483678 2 1224979098644774924 5000 2171 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774920 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774925 31 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640034 5 0 30 2 1224979098644774925 26 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640033 5 0 30 2 1224979098644774925 15 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640032 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640031 3 0 1610 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1 3 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 2136 3 1224979098644774927 0 100 2319 1 2 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774927 14 2320 2 2 1585267068834416815 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774927 28 2320 2 2 1585267068834416816 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774927 42 2320 2 2 1585267068834416817 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774927 56 2320 2 2 1585267068834416818 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774927 70 2320 2 2 1585267068834416819 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774927 84 2320 2 2 1585267068834416820 5 0 2320 2 2 1585267068834416821 3 0


2) Eyegrim the Devourer's party has a soft cap at 5000 by default. If his army gets any bigger then the set amount, then it will stop growing and human prisoners will be gradually consumed (eaten) instead. To change this party limit, adjust the two values of 5000 in the above piece together.

3) Also, you can make Eyegrim's army grow only from rescued prisoners. To do so, delete the parts in red (4 pieces) and decrease the operation counter at the beginning of the script by 43 (116 -> 73).

Tweak 1 g)

To change the composition of minor faction spawns to become more authentic and interesting

File: party_templates.txt

It is advised to use the "Party templates editor" within Morgh's Editor to make these things happen. Changes are savegame compatible, but they will apply only to parties that spawn after you made the edits. Values presented will be [min - max], depending on your level. Additionally, the resulting party template codes are added for an easier implementation (replace the given entries with the following):

Snake Cult Party:
'None' [0-0] -> Snake Cult Leader [0-1] (trp_snake_lair_leader)
Put Snake Cult Leader on top (the true leaders from now on)
pt_snake_bandits Snake_Cult_Party 5629499534213150 0 42 312 384 0 1 0 274 0 4 0 273 2 18 0 272 4 40 0 55 0 3 1 -1 

Snake Cult Army:
'None' [0-0] -> Azi Dahaka Serpent Priestess [2-6]
Put Azi Dahaka Serpent Priestesses on top (the true leaders from now on)
pt_snake_cult_army Snake_Cult_Army 5629499534213149 0 42 137 359 2 6 0 276 2 20 0 275 12 30 0 274 100 300 0 273 100 300 0 272 100 300 0 

Dread Legion Patrol:
'None' [0-0] -> Asp Vanguard [1-1]
Put Asp Vanguard on top (the leader from now on)
pt_dread_legion_patrol Dread_Legion_Patrol 5629499534213150 0 42 137 277 1 1 0 276 2 6 0 275 8 20 0 349 3 15 0 -1 -1 





Heretic Coven: add an additional way to rescue too rare Sarleon Ladies in Waiting
'None' [0-0] -> Sarleon Lady in waiting [0-1]
tick 'Prisoner'
pt_heretics Heretic_Coven 562949953421331 0 41 458 363 1 3 0 362 2 6 0 361 3 13 0 360 6 24 0 55 1 5 1 366 0 1 1 

Heretic Army:
Adventurer [6-24] -> Heretic High Priest [6-24] (trp_heretic_lair_leader)
Put Heretic High Priests above Heretic Minions
pt_heretics_army Heretic_Army 5629499534213138 0 41 137 364 4 24 0 363 12 48 0 362 24 48 0 361 48 96 0 380 6 24 0 360 400 700 0 





Jatu Army:
Adventurer [1-12] -> Noldor Hunter [0-2]
tick 'Prisoner'
Hero Adventurer [1-6] -> [4-10] (for compensation of the loss of fighting troops)
pt_jatu_army Jatu_Army 5629499534213126 0 37 137 271 1 12 0 243 4 10 0 270 50 100 0 269 100 220 0 268 180 420 0 262 0 2 1 

K'Juda the Ravager: he hates Noldors far too much to keep and hold them prisoner for long, and the most representative troop, the Jatu Warlords are missing from his company. Also, his company could be more different from Warlord Zulkar's:
Noldor Hunter [1-3] -> Jatu Warlord [20-50]
Put Jatu Warlords above Jatu Battle Riders
pt_jatu_k_juda K'Juda_the_Ravager 562949953421318 0 37 137 310 1 1 0 322 50 150 0 271 20 50 0 270 50 80 0 269 40 120 0 268 50 300 0 





Mystmountain_Raiders: add an additional way to rescue too rare Ravenstern Ladies in Waiting
'None' [0-0] -> Ravenstern Lady in waiting [0-1]
tick 'Prisoner'
pt_mystmountain_raiders Mystmountain_Raiders 562949953421329 0 39 312 230 0 3 0 229 1 4 0 228 4 21 0 227 4 32 0 365 0 3 1 368 0 1 1 

Mystmountain Army:
Hero Adventurer [10-15] -> Mystmountain Raiding Chief [10-25] (trp_myst_lair_leader)
pt_mystmountain_army Mystmountain_Army 5629499534213136 0 39 137 381 10 25 0 230 20 50 0 229 4 20 0 228 200 600 0 227 200 300 0 215 60 200 0 





Conquistadoros de Aventura:
'None' [0-0] -> Barclay Aventurier [30-60]
pt_merc_barclay Conquistadoros_de_Aventura 2251799813685270 0 28 509 297 10 20 0 296 20 40 0 295 20 40 0 293 30 60 0 294 20 40 0 81 30 60 0 





Mettenheim Expeditionary Force:
Mercenary Forlorn Hope [20-60] -> [20-40]
Mettenheim Hauptmann [20-40] -> [20-60] (to counter the below addition a bit)
'None' [0-0] -> Mettenheim Heavy Crossbow [30-60]
Put Mettenheim Heavy Crossbows above Mettenheim Greatswords
pt_merc_mettenheim Mettenheim_Expeditionary_Force 2251799813685262 0 30 137 283 20 40 0 282 20 60 0 280 30 60 0 281 50 100 0 278 50 100 0 279 50 100 0 





Vanskerry Sea Raider Army:
Hero Adventurer [1-3] -> Vanskerry Leader [1-3]
Adventurer [6-18] -> Queen Agnus Freebooter [20-60]
Put Queen Agnus Freebooters below Vanskerry Jarls
pt_sea_raider_army Vanskerry_Sea_Raider_Army 5629499534213143 0 33 137 383 1 3 0 225 4 48 0 237 20 60 0 224 40 300 0 64 60 160 0 223 100 500 0 





Singalian Slavers:
'None' [0-0] -> Singalian Vidona [1-2] (trp_singal_lair_leader)
Put Singalian Vidona on top (the true leaders from now on)
pt_slaver_singalian Singalian_Slavers 2251799813685276 0 40 137 382 1 2 0 299 3 6 0 298 5 30 0 67 10 50 0 -1 -1 

Singalian Sellsword Company:
'None' [0-0] -> Singalian Vidona [3-15] (trp_singal_lair_leader)
Put Singalian Vidona on top (the true leaders from now on)
pt_merc_singalian Singalian_Sellsword_Company 2251799813685276 0 40 137 382 3 15 0 299 10 50 0 298 50 100 0 67 50 100 0 -1 -1 

Firuz and his Singalian Slavers:
'None' [0-0] -> Singalian Vidona [15-30] (trp_singal_lair_leader)
Put Singalian Vidona below Firuz
pt_player_merc_singalians Firuz_and_his_Singalian_Slavers 2251799813685275 0 40 509 1187 1 1 0 382 15 30 0 299 50 100 0 298 80 150 0 67 80 160 0 -1 

Burilgi the Usurper:
D'Shar Outlaw Chieftain [50-100] -> Singalian Vidona [40-80] (trp_singal_lair_leader)
pt_burilgi_the_usurper Burilgi_the_Usurper 5629499534213147 0 40 137 300 1 1 0 319 25 100 0 298 200 300 0 67 100 200 0 382 40 80 0 299 50 100 0 





Mercenary Company:
Mercenary Horseman [10-50] -> [20-60]
Mercenary Cavalryman [20-60] -> [10-50] (to counter the below additions a bit)
'None' [0-0] -> Mercenary Sergeant [20 - 40]
'None' [0-0] -> Mercenary Sharpshooter [20 - 40]
New order of the template: Mercenary Cavalryman -> Mercenary Sharpshooter -> Mercenary Sergeant -> Mercenary Horseman -> Mercenary Armored Crossbowman -> Mercenary Warrior
pt_merc_generic Mercenary_Company 2251799813685259 0 34 137 65 10 50 0 63 20 40 0 60 20 40 0 64 20 60 0 62 30 50 0 59 50 100 0 





Mountain Men Outlaws:
Notorious Outlaw [0-1] -> Mystmountain Raiding Chief [0-1] (trp_myst_lair_leader)
pt_mountain_bandits Mountain_Men_Outlaws 562949953421329 0 23 312 381 0 1 0 228 0 8 0 215 2 8 0 227 1 8 0 213 2 12 0 365 0 4 1 





Red Brotherhood: add an additional way to recruit a Noldor Hunter occasionally
'None' [0-0] -> Noldor Hunter [0-1]
tick 'Prisoner'
pt_red_brotherhood Red_Brotherhood 562949953421344 0 38 312 205 1 4 0 204 1 6 0 215 4 12 0 365 0 3 1 217 2 8 0 262 0 1 1 


Tweak 1 h)

To change the circumstances of unique spawns deciding to sack a town - credits to Dalion and Половець

Spawns may decide to sack a town they come by when the following conditions are met:

The spawn must have at least 30,000 autocalc strength
The autocalc strength of the attackers must be higher than that of the defenders
The relationship between the two factions must be low enough
The distance between the spawn and the town must be less than 5 units
And lastly, less than 15 must be rolled in a range of 0 and 100-1

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find and observe this trigger:

14.000000  52 11 1 1224979098644774912 32 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351673 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147483681 3 1224979098644774913 432345564227567630 432345564227567636 2157 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774914 150 1680 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774915 -1 1 3 936748722493063320 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774916 30000 2107 2 1224979098644774916 67 2108 2 1224979098644774916 100 2133 2 1224979098644774917 648518346341351464 6 3 1224979098644774918 648518346341351446 1224979098644774917 541 3 1224979098644774918 54 -1 2204 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 2190 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774919 2147483678 2 1224979098644774920 0 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774918 7 360287970189639680 2190 3 1224979098644774921 432345564227567629 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774921 0 2133 2 1224979098644774922 10 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774922 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774922 0 2281 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774918 2147483680 2 1224979098644774923 5 1662 2 1224979098644774918 648518346341351444 1 3 936748722493063320 648518346341351444 0 2133 2 1224979098644774924 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774924 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 15 1640 2 1224979098644774912 4


2) Change the above described values to your liking. For example, if you set 15 to 100, then spawns will always decide to sack the town if the other conditions are met. Also, it is worth to note that the whole script is checked upon every 14 hours. Decreasing the trigger in the beginning to 0.500000 (every half an hour) will ensure the decision to sack as well, given that the remaining conditions are met.

Tweak 1 i)

To add automatic notification messages about the location of unique spawns and minor faction armies - credits to Leonion

Note: for the sake of simplicity, you won't be notified of the location of Peasant Revolt Armies in this tweak. But if you really want to find them, then you'll always have the default tavernkeeper option to ask for their whereabouts.

Unwanted sideeffect: some spawns will be listed twice, nearby two different fiefs. These fiefs will be always next to each other, meaning that the given spawn is in between these two

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134)

2) Go to the end of the file and insert the following code as a new line:

12.000000  39 6 3 1224979098644774913 648518346341351446 648518346341351594 2133 2 1224979098644774915 3 4 0 2273 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 2 3 0 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774913 253 1 2107 2 1224979098644774915 2 5 0 2147483681 3 1224979098644774913 648518346341351504 648518346341351594 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1 2107 2 1224979098644774915 2 3 0 11 1 1224979098644774917 1609 2 1224979098644774942 1224979098644774917 1073741857 3 1224979098644774942 576460752303423556 576460752303423578 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423502 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423505 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423508 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423511 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423514 31 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423518 4 0 1073741857 3 1224979098644774942 576460752303423556 576460752303423578 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423502 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423505 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423508 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423511 1073741855 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423514 31 2 1224979098644774942 576460752303423518 2281 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 2147483680 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774915 2330 2 1 1224979098644774917 2330 2 4 1224979098644774913 1106 2 216172782113788090 3394662 3 0 3 0 3 0


Make sure that you leave an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) The 12.000000 is the frequency of the trigger, expressed in hours. Increase it to get reports more rarely, or decrease it to get reports more frequently.

Tweak 1 j)

To change the cost of the sighting report info about spawns

File: conversation.txt

1) Find these 4 pieces:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 2000

30 2 1224979098644774912 2000 2319 1 54

could_share_it_with_you_for_..._a_2000_shiny_gold_pieces.

1 1529 2 360287970189639680 2000


2) Change the highlighted 2000 in all of them to something else of your choice (200 or whatever)

Tweak 1 k)

To count the amount of enemy and allied units next to you on the world map - credits to VonDegurechaff

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Are you tired of seeing a bunch of enemy parties balling up, without being able to tell how many units there are due the overlapping numbers? Well, this tweak is for you then! While holding down the 'Left Shift' button and clicking on your party's name on the world map with the right mouse button, a menu will appear showing the total number of allies (including your own men) and enemies within a given radius. It's important to note that the script counts all hostile and allied parties within that range, even those who wouldn't join the battle, like peasants or bandits. The default detection radius is 4 in-game units, which is equivalent to that of between the player's party and Marleons in this screenshot, which also showcases the resulting menu: https://sun9-65.userapi.com/c857232/v857232613/1a2f90/zULksncZCwM.jpg

Files:

quick_strings.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open quick_strings.txt, increase the number in the 1st line of the file by 1 (3139 -> 3140), then add the following entry to end of the file, as a new line:

qstr_enemy_num:{reg5} Number_of_enemies:{reg5}_Number_of_allies:{reg6}


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Then, open scripts.txt, find the game_context_menu_get_buttons script and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 27 (40 -> 67). Then to the very end of its body, insert this piece, separated by 1 gap:

4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 70 1 42 2133 2 72057594037927941 0 1601 2 72057594037927942 648518346341351424 11 1 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2281 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 5 2204 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1601 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567630 2105 2 72057594037927942 1224979098644774915 5 0 2190 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 432345564227567630 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 0 2105 2 72057594037927941 1224979098644774915 5 0 30 2 1224979098644774916 0 2105 2 72057594037927942 1224979098644774915 3 0 3 0 3 0 980 2 1585267068834417731 6 3 0 


Make sure that you have a gap/space at the end of the piece! That 5 is the search radius, which corresponds to a "less than" condition, i.e. <5

3) In case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in quick_strings.txt, then adjust the highlighted 1585267068834417731 to the number you get for 1585267068834414592 + № of the quick_string from point 1 (line-2 in Notepad++). Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to replace 432345564227567630 (2 instances) with the number you get for 432345564227567616 + № of fac_player_supporters_faction from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor).

Tweak 1 l)

To change the frequency of various parties spawning onto the world map - credits to TheMageLord and akamashev

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find the following triggers or pieces of triggers. They are responsible for spawning the following parties respectively:

12.000000  2 1 1 936748722493063611 1 1 936748722493063595

Red Brotherhood parties
D'Shar Raiders + D'Shar Raider Lair (spawns additional D'Shar Raider parties)
Snake Cult parties + Snake Cult Shrine (spawns additional Snake Cult parties)
Mountain Men Outlaws + Mystmountain Hideout (spawns additional Mountain Men Outlaw parties)
Forest Bandit parties + Brigand Camp (spawns additional Forest Bandit parties)
Vanskerry Raiders + Vanskerry Landing (spawns additional Vanskerry Raider parties)
Singalian Slavers
Band of Brigands
16.000000  10 1 2 936748722493063597 0 1 2 936748722493063598 0 1 2 936748722493063603 0 1 1 936748722493063606 1 2 936748722493063604 0 1 1 936748722493063602 1 1 936748722493063606 1 1 936748722493063596 1 2 936748722493063608 0 1 2 936748722493063599 0

Vanskerry Raiders (another spawn point)
Noldor patrols
Snake Cult parties (another spawn point)
Snake Cult Warband
Heretic Coven
Three Seers Patrol
Inquisition patrols
Inquisition warbands
Knighthood Order patrols
Jatu Raiding Party
Jatu Warband
Mystmountain Raiders
96.000000  1 1 1 936748722493063610

Rogue/Renegade Knights
Adventuring Company
Female Adventuring Company
168.000000  214 4 0 1 1 936748722493063594 1 2 936748722493063600 0 1 1 936748722493063605 1 1 936748722493063607 1 1 936748722493063799

Deserters
Militia Patrols
Patrols of: Eyegrim the Devourer, Dread Legion, Wolfbode the Slayer, The Three Seers and Holy Inquisitor Rasmus Devatica

Now for this to work without any side-effects, we need to move the call for the respective scripts to another trigger, as the one above also has the call for stuff related to your weekly budget report. So first, decrease the 214 by 4 (214 -> 210) and delete the blue part. Watch for the gaps, as always. Then, to the end of the file, add this trigger as a new line:

168.000000  4 1 1 936748722493063594 1 2 936748722493063600 0 1 1 936748722493063605 1 1 936748722493063607 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file. That 168 in the new line is the one you should edit overall. Lastly, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134).




120.000000  48 2136 3 1224979098644774912 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 1 1 936748722493063601 3 0 1 2

Azi Dahaka Death Cult Marauders

Just like the previous trigger, this one also has more into it, and that would be the call for the preroll system. We will separate the spawning of Azi Dahaka Death Cult Marauders from this trigger, and leave the frequency of the predetermined values rolled to another tweak. So first, decrease the 48 by 5 (48 -> 43) and delete the blue part. Watch for the gaps, as always. Then, add the following trigger to the end of the file, as a new line:

120.000000  3 2136 3 1224979098644774912 1 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 1 1 936748722493063601 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file. That 120 in the new line is the one you should edit overall. Lastly, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134).

2) The red numbers highlighted are the frequencies used for spawning the above parties onto the world map, expressed in in-game hours. Change them to your liking.

3) Also, you can enhance the spawn rate of KO parties from chapters even further by increasing the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134) and adding the following trigger to the end of the file, as a new line:

1.000000  1 1 1 936748722493063602 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file. That 1.0 is the above described frequency once again. Decreasing it will increase the spawn rate.

Tweak 1 m)

To edit the spawning chance of Hired Assassins - credits to Dalion

By default, in order for a party of Hired Assassins to spawn (belonging to the "background enemies" faction), the player must be resting in a walled fief during the night, that is not in his possession. Under such conditions, there is a 10% chance for hired assassins to spawn for each night. Also, guaranteed spawning happens when mentioned in a rumor.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) To change the spawning chance of hired assassins, find this piece of code:

2136 3 1224979098644774917 1 11 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 2133 2 144115188075857215 1


2) And replace it with this:

0 100 2147483680 2 1224979098644774917 50


That 50 is your chance in percentage which you can now set in a range of 0-100. Change it to your liking! Also, watch for the gaps, so that exactly 1 remains before and after the replacement.

3) Alternatively, you can change the condition to not matter if the given walled fief is in your possession or not. To do so, replace the entire trigger (found previously) with this one:

1.000000  47 2147483685 0 2273 0 33 3 144115188075856247 648518346341351446 648518346341351594 2136 3 1224979098644774917 0 100 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774917 10 2133 2 144115188075857215 1 3 0 2147484189 3 144115188075856247 7 360287970189639680 2204 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856247 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 2270 1 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856250 2120 3 144115188075856250 1224979098644774913 24 2149 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 1601 2 1224979098644774915 648518346341351424 2123 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 4 2105 2 1224979098644774916 1 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774916 1106 1 1585267068834416773 1529 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774916 5 0 32 2 1224979098644774914 0 1529 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774918 1 6 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 1 600 1 1152921504606847208 1106 2 216172782113788811 6711039 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 2 600 1 1152921504606847342 1106 2 216172782113788812 6711039 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 3 600 1 1152921504606847341 1106 2 216172782113788813 6711039 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 4 600 1 1152921504606847208 1106 2 216172782113788814 6711039 5 0 600 1 1152921504606847208 1106 2 216172782113788815 6711039 3 0


Once again, that 10 is your chance in percentage which you can set in a range of 0-100.

Tweak 1 n)

To change the maximum number of various parties allowed on the world map at a time - credits to TheMageLord, Leonion and Dalion

Files:

scripts.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open scripts.txt, and under the given scripts, you will find the following pieces of codes, belonging to the parties down below: spawn_red_brotherhood:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 13 2136 3 1224979098644774913 648518346341351446 648518346341351464

Red Brotherhood parties

spawn_singal_raiders:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 10 2310 2 1224979098644774913 576460752303423530

Singalian Slavers

cf_spawn_azi_death_cult:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 4 2135 2 1224979098644774913 20

Azi Dahaka Death Cult Marauders

spawn_deserters:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 8 1103 1 4

Deserters

spawn_vanskerry:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 15 2135 2 1224979098644774913 3

Vanskerry Raiders

spawn_signature_patrols (5 instances, 1 for each spawn):

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 4 524 3 1224979098644774913

Patrols of Eyegrim the Devourer
Patrols of Dread Legion
Patrols of Wolfbode the Slayer
Patrols of The Three Seers
Patrols of Holy Inquisitor Rasmus Devatica

spawn_looters:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 50

Outlaw Bands

The red numbers highlighted are the maximum amount of parties allowed on the world map at a time. Change them to your liking.

spawn_friendlies:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 9 1100 2 1224979098644774912 576460752303423495

Automatically created militia patrols (by the AI)

2) For the total amount of militia patrols, open conversation.txt and find this piece:

2310 2 1224979098644774913 576460752303423495 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 20


That 20 in the end is the amount of militia patrols allowed for every kingdom combined (so including the 9 created automatically), regardless which has how many. Change that value to your liking.

Tweak 1 o)

To change the size of deserter parties - credits to TheMageLord

Creating Deserters in the game is achieved by the given script calling up a random lord, getting his faction, picking the tier 1 troop of that faction, and then upgrading them all with a bit of randomness thrown in. This tweak will let you adjust the number of those deserter units within a party.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

2 2105 2 1224979098644774921 11 2136 3 1224979098644774922 10


The number of deserters spawned is based on a random number picked between 10 and (11 + (PlayerLevel x 2) - 1). So if you're level 10, then the game will create deserter parties ranging between 10 and 30 units randomly.

2) Change the above values to your liking.

Tweak 1 p)

To change the level-multiplier of the player determining the size of various parties on the map - credits to Dalion

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

As your level increases, you get bigger and bigger spawns (including bandits and unique spawns) spawning onto the world map. With this tweak, you can essentially change the rate of that growth.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the following piece of code under the script called update_party_creation_random_limits:

2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2122 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 4



2) That 4 in the end is the level-multiplier (3 in Native, so could be different in other mods), but note that it is only a part of the whole formula for the size limitation. Increasing it will increase the rate of parties' growth for a more challenging playthrough, while decreasing it will decrease it.

Tweak 1 q)

To change the number of troops that militia patrols can hold - credits to VampirkoO

By default, you can't give more troops to a militia patrol once it reached the 100 limit. With this tweak, you can increase or decrease that limit if you want.

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for these two lines:

dlga_manhunter_talk_b:militia_give_troops 196615 114  6 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856280 123 1073741855 2 144115188075856957 432345564227567630 541 3 1224979098644774912 7 360287970189639680 1601 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 I_want_to_give_some_troops_to_you.  117  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_manhunter_talk_b2:close_window 131079 116  0 Thank_you,_your_{reg63?Lordship:Ladyship}._Come_on_Men!_Onward!  6  26 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856280 123 1073741855 2 144115188075856957 432345564227567630 541 3 1224979098644774912 7 360287970189639680 1601 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 32 2 1224979098644774913 100 1601 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 2121 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 100


2) Change all 3 instances of 100 to something else (presumably higher, i.e. to 300)

Tweak 1 r)

To make militia patrols able to join you in fights against common enemies - credits to Vetrogor

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the script called let_nearby_parties_join_current_battle and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 2 (118 -> 120)

2) Then, find this piece of code:

1073742364 3 360287970189639680 161 1224979098644774914


3) And replace it with this:

1609 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774914 1073742364 3 360287970189639680 161 1224979098644774914 1073741855 2 1224979098644774928 576460752303423495


Watch for the gaps, as always!

Tweak 1 s)

To change the patrolling radius of various patrols - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak includes Militia Patrols, Errant Knights (KO patrols belonging to a kingdom), independent KO patrols (representing their own faction) and Stronghold KO patrols too.

Files:

scripts.txt
conversation.txt

1) For village militia patrols, open scripts.txt and find this piece of code:

1643 2 1224979098644774915 5


2) For Errant Knights and independent KO patrols, open scripts.txt and find these two pieces of code (one is for the former, the other is for the latter):

1643 2 1224979098644774926 5


3) For Stronghold KO patrols, open conversation.txt and find this piece of code:

1643 2 1224979098644774913 5


4) The highlighted values of 5 above are the patrolling radiuses. These values multiplied by 6 will give the actual in-game unit distances. So by default, the radius is 30 (5 x 6) units. This radius is roughly the equivalent of the linear distance between Sarleon and Singal. Changing the above values to 1 (the minimum) will make the radius become 1/5 of its original size.

Tweak 1 t)

To prevent Noldor parties from attacking caravans, farmers and militia patrols - credits to Leonion and Fandom User (anonymous)

Are you sick of Noldors claiming to be all good and innocent and yet regularly robbing caravans and killing defenseless peasants, like regular brigands? Then stop it now! Note: militia patrols, caravans and farmers will still run away fearing for their lives, but have no worries - they will not be attacked.

Files:

scripts.txt
party_templates.txt

1) Open scripts.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (754 -> 755)

2) Go to the end of the file and insert the following as 2 new lines:

game_check_party_sees_party -1
 12 21 1 1224979098644774912 22 1 1224979098644774913 2204 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 2204 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 2190 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774916 2147483678 2 1224979098644774917 0 1609 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567643 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 576460752303423495 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 576460752303423585 31 2 1224979098644774915 576460752303423597 2075 1 0


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Alternatively to the previous solution, you can use the "Party Templates Editor" within Morgh's Editor and check the "civilian" flag for the following parties:

Militia_Patrol (#7)
Village_Farmers (#97)
Caravan (#109)

4) And then, also check the "dont attack civilians" flag for these parties:

Noldor_Ranger_Company (#61)
Aeldarian_Noldor_Lord (#81)
Ithilrandir_Noldor_Lord (#82)

Tweak 1 u)

To make cattle move faster on the world map - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!
This tweak requires a new game to take effect by default, however you can use the above linked savegame editor to make the changes savegame-compatible

File: troops.txt

Use the "Troop Editor" within Morgh's Editor and search for "Cattle" to make the following changes:

Check the 'Mounted' flag
Riding: 0 -> 10
Pathfinding: 0 -> 10

Tweak 1 v)

To increase party map speed - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) First, increase the counter found in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (754 -> 755). Then add the following piece to the end of the file, as two new lines:

game_get_party_speed_multiplier -1
 20 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 150 2156 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 2124 1 100 2130 1 1224979098644774914 2125 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 2108 2 1224979098644774915 200 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2107 2 1224979098644774913 110 2108 2 1224979098644774913 100 3 0 4 0 1609 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 33 3 1224979098644774916 576460752303423556 576460752303423578 2107 2 1224979098644774913 110 2108 2 1224979098644774913 100 3 0 2075 1 1224979098644774913


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) The above highlighted numbers mean the following and can be adjusted as follows:

150 - Global party movement speed modifier, expressed in percentage. The result of the set value is that the speed of all parties on the map get increased by 50% (default value: 100)
200 - Decrease factor for speed reduction due to party size. Possible values are from 100 to 200. Due to hardcoded mechanics, the speed reduction cannot be decreased much. For a value of 100, movement speed gets faster by 0.1 than without this factor at 5000 party size, and for a value of 200, the same increase happens at a 14000 party size (default value: N/A)
110 - Bonus movement speed for your own party only, expressed in percentage. The set value will result in a 10% speed increase (default value: 100)
110 - Bonus movement speed for unique spawns only, expressed in percentage. The set value will result in a 10% speed increase (default value: 100)
576460752303423556 576460752303423578 - To make the tweak work with other mods, adjust this party template range to one of your choice, in x...y+1 format (576460752303423488 + № of a template from party_templates.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)). Can be set to bandit lairs too if you don't want to set up a particular custom range. The belonging parties will have a separately adjustable party map speed modifier.

Change them to your liking!

Tweak 1 w)

To change your party size - credits to Dalion

File: scripts.txt

1) Find and observe this piece of code under the script called game_get_party_companion_limit:

2133 2 1224979098644774913 10 2170 3 1224979098644774914 1 1224979098644774912 2172 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 3 2107 2 1224979098644774914 10 2107 2 1224979098644774915 2 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774914 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 520 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 7 2123 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 25


2) Your party size = 10 base size + 10 for each point of leadership + 2 for each point in charisma + 1 for every 25 renown. Change these values to your liking. Also, note that every value except for the bonus from charisma is editable with TweakMB too!

Tweak 1 x)

To prevent hateful factions from disappearing until you unify Pendor

File: scripts.txt

1) First, find the entry for determine_victory_conditions_and_text on line 1191 and increase the 1st number by 22 (392 -> 414). Then make the following addition:

32 2 1224979098644774919 0 2320 2 13 1585267068834415526 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774922 0 2204 2 1224979098644774923 648518346341351446 6 3 1224979098644774924 648518346341351447 648518346341351594 4 0 2204 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774924 2147483679 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774923 2105 2 1224979098644774922 1 2133 2 1224979098644774924 648518346341351594 3 0 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927940 1224979098644774912 2133 2 72057594037927941 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774920 0



2) Replace the 4 instances of:

2106 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 



with

4 0 31 2 1224979098644774922 0 2106 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 3 0


2. Knighthood Orders (21)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
2 a) To access and change the garrison of the Order Stronghold
2 b) To change the upgrade times of Alexios of Melitine
2 c) To make Alexios of Melitine able to upgrade 'unique' items as well
2 d) Make Quartermaster Kailin be able to train horses
2 e) To receive an honorary reward for conquering the Snake Cult Stronghold for the knighthood order you joined
2 f) To change the time it takes to rebuild the Order Stronghold
2 g) To guarantee KO chapters at a new game's start
2 h) To increase the chance of kings creating KO chapters in their walled fiefs
2 i) To add Knighthood Order chapters into the game
2 j) To be able to create KO chapters in any walled fief (of your own kingdom)
2 k) To remove the requirements to create KO chapters
2 l) To enable dismantling KO chapters in any of your own faction's walled fiefs
2 m) To change the entry troops and prestige costs of KO induction
2 n) To change the rate and the limit of the free KO garrison reinforcement
2 o) To change the amount, size, and frequency of KO patrols
2 p) To change the aggressiveness and initiative of KO war parties assisting you
2 q) To fix the issue of KOs not keeping track of previous promotion rewards you are entitled to once you reach the next rank
2 r) To make KO units give you their full equipment upon asking to buy their armor sets
2 s) To change the prestige and gold cost of upgrading the quality of KO/CKO knights
2 t) To be able to train sergeants too with the default training and adjust the stats given to both them and knights
2 u) Overhaul of KO upgrade system


Tweak 2 a)

To access and change the garrison of the Order Stronghold - credits to BananaFruit and LieutenantNicolas

Files:

menus.txt
conversation.txt

This tweak will allow you to garrison troops into the Stronghold, or to take them out, as well as to change the starting garrison. As of v3.9.4, due to the Hideout feature, you'll have to pay 75% of the wages of the garrison once you've touched it (added or removed a troop), as well as an extra of 500 denars for the upkeep of the crew in there. At least the Order Stronghold will never be attacked, so your troops will always be safe there.

1) To access the garrison, open menus.txt and search for:

menu_stronghold 4352 {s4}


Delete the whole menu and its submenu (2 lines) and replace them with these:

menu_stronghold 4352 {s4} none 13 2202 1 144115188075856143 4 0 200 1 504403158265495619 546 3 504403158265495619 11 4 2320 2 4 1585267068834416662 5 0 546 3 504403158265495619 11 6 31 2 144115188075857205 0 2320 2 4 1585267068834416663 5 0 2320 2 4 1585267068834416664 3 0 2031 1 1441151880758558802 16
 mno_castle_castle  1 31 2 1 0  Go_to_the_castle.  0  .  mno_join_tournament  1 31 2 1 0  Join_the_Order_tournament.  0  .  mno_town_castle  1 566 3 504403158265495619 11 5  Go_to_the_Order_castle_hall.  2 2133 2 144115188075856217 1 1 2 936748722493063470 144115188075856143  Door_to_the_castle  mno_town_center  1 31 2 1 0  Take_a_walk_around_the_streets.  0  .  mno_town_tavern  1 31 2 1 0  Visit_the_tavern.  0  .  mno_town_merchant  1 31 2 1 0  Speak_with_the_merchant.  0  .  mno_town_arena  1 31 2 1 0  Enter_the_arena.  0  .  mno_town_dungeon  1 31 2 1 0  Never:_Enter_the_prison.  0  .  mno_castle_inspect  1 566 3 504403158265495619 11 5  Take_a_walk_around_the_courtyard.  38 4 0 2133 2 144115188075856070 0 2133 2 144115188075856124 0 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 10 1261 1 1224979098644774912 1262 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 40 1650 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075856280 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 1224979098644774914 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 47 1652 3 1224979098644774916 144115188075856280 1224979098644774915 2147485155 1 1224979098644774916 1653 3 1224979098644774917 144115188075856280 1224979098644774915 1654 3 1224979098644774918 144115188075856280 1224979098644774915 2106 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774918 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1655 3 1224979098644774919 144115188075856280 1224979098644774915 1263 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856217 0 2133 2 144115188075856217 1 3 0 1912 1 1 2133 2 1224979098644774920 256 1911 1 792633534417207316 1940 3 792633534417207316 0 1224979098644774920 1940 3 792633534417207316 1 1224979098644774920 1940 3 792633534417207316 2 1224979098644774920 1940 3 792633534417207316 3 1224979098644774920 1940 3 792633534417207316 4 1224979098644774920 1940 3 792633534417207316 5 1224979098644774920 1940 3 792633534417207316 6 1224979098644774920 1940 3 792633534417207316 7 1224979098644774920 1910 1 1224979098644774912 2048 0 3 0  To_the_castle_courtyard.  mno_town_enterprise  1 31 2 1 0  Visit_your_enterprise.  0  .  mno_visit_lady  1 31 2 1 0  Attempt_to_visit_a_lady.  0  .  mno_trade_with_merchants  1 31 2 1 0  Go_to_the_marketplace.  0  .  mno_castle_attack  3 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 200 1 504403158265495619 546 3 504403158265495619 11 4  Launch_the_assault!  1 2060 1 864691128455135383  .  mno_castle_wait  1 566 3 504403158265495619 11 5  Rest_here_for_some_time.  5 2133 2 144115188075856033 144115188075856143 2133 2 144115188075856247 144115188075856143 2133 2 144115188075856250 -1 1031 3 168 5 0 2040 0  .  mno_castle_wait  1 566 3 504403158265495619 11 5  Manage_the_garrison.  1 2043 1 1  .  mno_town_leave  0  Leave.  2 2133 2 144115188075856071 0 2040 1 0  Leave_Area.


2) To change the starting garrison, open conversation.txt and find this piece under the line starting with dlga_start:close_window.67:

1610 3 648518346341351601 144115188075855892 50 1610 3 648518346341351601 1224979098644774912 80 1610 3 648518346341351601 360287970189639742 100 1610 3 648518346341351601 360287970189639739 100 1611 3 648518346341351601 360287970189639952 20


The default garrison is created upon talking with the officer knight after conquering the stronghold, consisting of the following troops, in the following order:

50 of your order's knights
80 of your order's sergeants
100 Mercenary Armored Crossbowman (360287970189639742)
1610 3 648518346341351601 360287970189639742 100

100 Mercenary Warrior (360287970189639739)
1610 3 648518346341351601 360287970189639739 100

20 Snake Cult Follower prisoners 360287970189639952
1611 3 648518346341351601 360287970189639952 20


Change the highlighted troops above to your liking! To do that, open up the Troops Editor within Morgh's Editor, find the entry number of the unit of your choice, then add this number to the "troop constant" which is 360287970189639680 and put the resulting number into the place of the respective troop code (e.g. Mercenary Warrior is #59, 360287970189639680 + 59 = 360287970189639739). You may also add further troops (or remove them) by following the pattern of the 3 above pieces and adding them one after the other repeatedly, separated by 1 gap from each side, with the necessary adjustments made to the troop codes. The piece for garrisoned troops need to start with 1610, while 1611 is for prisoners. Lastly, don't forget to adjust the highlighted operation counter (19), by the amount of pieces added or removed:

6  19 506 3 504403158265495619 11 6


Tweak 2 b)

To change the upgrade times of Alexios of Melitine - credits to il_22113, VonDegurechaff and Fandom User (anonymous)

Don't apply this tweak while an upgrade is in progress!

File: conversation.txt

1) Find and observe this line:

dlga_order_blacksmith_1:order_blacksmith_2 1196 1850  271 1541 3 144115188075857208 360287970189639680 144115188075855914 1542 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 144115188075855914 1570 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075857208 4 0 30 2 144115188075855914 4 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 29 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 27 2133 2 144115188075857209 29 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 28 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 27 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 26 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 26 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 28 31 2 1224979098644774912 24 2133 2 144115188075857209 25 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075855914 5 2105 2 144115188075857206 30 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 7 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 27 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 25 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 5 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 18 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 42 2320 2 9 1585267068834417724 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 18 2105 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 17 31 2 1224979098644774913 9 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 17 2105 2 144115188075857206 30 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 8 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 19 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 19 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 10 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 18 31 2 1224979098644774912 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 42 2320 2 9 1585267068834417725 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 4 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 18 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 13 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 2 31 2 1224979098644774913 3 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 2725 2 144115188075857208 18 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 31 2 1224979098644774912 18 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 3 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 18 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 5 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 5 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 5 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 2725 2 144115188075857208 14 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 31 2 1224979098644774912 14 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 50 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 16 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 50 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 14 3 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 14 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 14 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 30 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 20 3 0 3 0 3 0 2325 2 10 144115188075857208 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857206 Let_me_take_a_look..._Hmm,_your_{s10}_{s9}.^I'll_need_{reg1}_days_to_work_in_my_enhancements._Would_that_be_convenient_for_you_Grandmaster?  1851  0 NO_VOICEOVER


2) The above colored numbers mean the following item types and the days needed to get a certain modifier:

Metal Helmets/Gloves/Boots:
Lordly - 50 days
Reinforced - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Leather Helmets/Gloves/Boots:
Hardened - 50 days
Thick - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Body Armors need an extra 30 days to upgrade compared to Helmets/Gloves/Boots
Shields:
Reinforced - 20 days
Thick - 15 days
Plain - 10 days
Arrows/Bolts:
Large Bag - 20 days
Plain - 10 days
Bullets need an extra 20 days to upgrade compared to Arrows/Bolts
Crossbows:
Masterwork - 50 days
Fine - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Arquebus needs an extra 30 days to upgrade compared to Crossbows
Bows:
Masterwork - 50 days
Strong - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Throwing Weapons:
Large Bag - 20 days
Balanced/Heavy - 15 days
Plain - 10 days
Polearms (Halberds and Long Axes):
Masterwork - 50 days
Heavy - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Spears/Lances/Staves:
Balanced - 50 days
Fine - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Axes/Maces:
Masterwork - 50 days
Balanced/Heavy - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Cudgels/Clubs/Sticks:
Heavy - 5 days
Fine - 5 days
Plain - 5 days
Swords (medium and strong):
Masterwork - 50 days
Balanced/Tempered - 30 days
Plain - 20 days
Swords (weak):
Tempered - 20 days
Balanced - 30 days
Plain - 20 days

3) Change the above values to your liking.

4) Or replace the above line with one of these down below, which will make everything take half (1/2) and fifth (1/5) of the time that it takes by default respectively:

dlga_order_blacksmith_1:order_blacksmith_2 1196 1850  271 1541 3 144115188075857208 360287970189639680 144115188075855914 1542 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 144115188075855914 1570 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075857208 4 0 30 2 144115188075855914 4 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 29 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 27 2133 2 144115188075857209 29 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 28 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 27 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 26 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 26 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 28 31 2 1224979098644774912 24 2133 2 144115188075857209 25 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075855914 5 2105 2 144115188075857206 15 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 7 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 27 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 25 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 8 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 5 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 5 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 18 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 42 2320 2 9 1585267068834417724 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 5 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 18 2105 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 17 31 2 1224979098644774913 9 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 17 2105 2 144115188075857206 15 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 8 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 19 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 19 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 10 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 18 31 2 1224979098644774912 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 42 2320 2 9 1585267068834417725 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 8 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 5 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 4 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 18 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 13 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 2 31 2 1224979098644774913 3 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 2725 2 144115188075857208 18 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 31 2 1224979098644774912 18 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 3 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 18 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 3 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 3 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 3 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 2725 2 144115188075857208 14 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 31 2 1224979098644774912 14 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 25 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 16 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 50 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 14 3 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 14 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 14 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 15 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 3 0 3 0 3 0 2325 2 10 144115188075857208 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857206 Let_me_take_a_look..._Hmm,_your_{s10}_{s9}.^I'll_need_{reg1}_days_to_work_in_my_enhancements._Would_that_be_convenient_for_you_Grandmaster?  1851  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_order_blacksmith_1:order_blacksmith_2 1196 1850  271 1541 3 144115188075857208 360287970189639680 144115188075855914 1542 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 144115188075855914 1570 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075857208 4 0 30 2 144115188075855914 4 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 29 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 27 2133 2 144115188075857209 29 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 28 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 27 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 26 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 26 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 28 31 2 1224979098644774912 24 2133 2 144115188075857209 25 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075855914 5 2105 2 144115188075857206 6 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 7 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 25 2133 2 144115188075857209 27 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 25 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 3 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 2 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 5 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 18 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 42 2320 2 9 1585267068834417724 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 2 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 18 2105 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 17 31 2 1224979098644774913 9 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 17 2105 2 144115188075857206 6 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 8 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 19 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 19 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 10 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 18 31 2 1224979098644774912 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 42 2320 2 9 1585267068834417725 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 3 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 2 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 4 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 18 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 13 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 3 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 2 31 2 1224979098644774913 3 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 2725 2 144115188075857208 18 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 31 2 1224979098644774912 18 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 4 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 3 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 18 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 10 2133 2 144115188075857209 18 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 10 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 1 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 1 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 17 2725 2 144115188075857208 14 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 31 2 1224979098644774912 14 2133 2 144115188075857209 17 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 10 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 16 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 50 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 14 3 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 5 0 2725 2 144115188075857208 14 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 13 2133 2 144115188075857209 14 2320 2 9 1585267068834417721 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 13 2320 2 9 1585267068834417722 2133 2 144115188075857206 6 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857209 0 2320 2 9 1585267068834417723 2133 2 144115188075857206 4 3 0 3 0 3 0 2325 2 10 144115188075857208 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857206 Let_me_take_a_look..._Hmm,_your_{s10}_{s9}.^I'll_need_{reg1}_days_to_work_in_my_enhancements._Would_that_be_convenient_for_you_Grandmaster?  1851  0 NO_VOICEOVER


5) Alternatively or additionally, you can add a divisor to the upgrade times seen above. For that, find this piece of code:

dlga_order_blacksmith_1:order_blacksmith_2 1196 1850  271 1541


6) Increase that 271 by 1 (271 -> 272), then find this piece of code towards the end of the section:

144115188075857208 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857206


7) And replace it with this:

144115188075857208 2108 2 144115188075857206 3 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857206


8) The 3 is the divisor itself, that will apply to all upgrades. For example: upgrading a body armor to 'lordly' takes 80 days. 80/3 = 26 days (integer division). You may change this divisor, but make sure you keep it between 2 and 5. Otherwise some upgrades will fail, because the result will be 0 days.

9) Lastly, instead of all the above, you can make all upgrades take a set amount of days. For that, apply only points 5), 6) and 7), but replace the 2108 in point 7) with 2133. The 3 in that case will become the number of days that all upgrades will take, no matter what. Change it to your liking. But don't go below 1.

Tweak 2 c)

To make Alexios of Melitine able to upgrade 'unique' items as well - credits to Dalion

Note: for this tweak to work properly, you must make sure that the given unique items have all the necessary modifiers added via Morgh's Editor! Otherwise the upgrades won't work. Also, keep in mind that the upgrade fastening prices for newly added items will be defaulted to the minimum 500, regardless of the item's base price. Lastly, if you intend to upgrade rune or unique bows, you should consider using the tweak to increase the skill caps, as bows with 9 Power Draw requirement and higher will become inaccurate at the default max of 10 Power Draw.

Items tagged with the 'unique' flag include:

crowned helmets
all default Al-Aziz rune items
legendary weapons of kings and Noldor lords
Demonic equipment
Wolfbode the Slayer's gear
Phoenix Heavy Platemail
Manopener
Asp Throwing Axes

Basically with this tweak, Alexios will be able to enhance any item that is already in the game.

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

70 50 1 1224979098644774912 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 8 2105 2 1224979098644774912 0 1541 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 4 0 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 288230376151712432 288230376151712439 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 288230376151712866 288230376151712873 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 288230376151713035 288230376151713044 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 288230376151713094 288230376151713100 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 288230376151713152 288230376151713157 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713077 31 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713126 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 5 0 1570 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913


2) Decrease the 70 by 9 (70 -> 61), and delete the part in blue. Make sure that 1 gap remains at the place of the removed content.

3) Lastly, make sure that you also add the necessary modifiers to these items with Morgh's Editor:

UllrVetr Manifest: 'Strong'
Heritage Daja Bow: 'Strong'
Duskfall: 'Strong'
Havathang: 'Tempered' and 'Masterwork'
Orator Baccus Sword: 'Tempered' and 'Masterwork'
Dragon's Tooth: 'Tempered' and 'Masterwork'
Koningur's Waraxe: 'Heavy' and 'Masterwork'
Banner of Sarleon: 'Heavy' and 'Masterwork'
Manopener: 'Heavy' and 'Masterwork'
Rune bows (4): 'Strong' and 'Masterwork'
Rune axes (4): 'Heavy' and 'Masterwork'
Rune swords (4): 'Tempered' and 'Masterwork'
Rune two-handed swords (4): 'Tempered' and 'Masterwork'
Rune glaives (4): 'Heavy' and 'Masterwork'

The 'Plain' modifier can be removed from all of them

Tweak 2 d)

Make Quartermaster Kailin be able to train horses - credits to Countyboar

Quartermaster Kailin is one of the 3 NPCs in the Order Stronghold's castle hall, and he is the most fitting NPC to train horses, for being a quartermaster. In exchange for time - just like in case of Alexios of Melitine - he will train horses up to a 'champion' state gradually: lame, swaybacked, stubborn and normal horses get trained to heavy, heavy get trained to spirited, spirited get trained to champion. And with some money invested in, the process can be speeded up in a similar fashion to Alexios of Melitine. In case of newly added horses, make sure that you have the mentioned modifiers set with Morgh's Editor!

Files:

variables.txt
quick_strings.txt
dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) Open variables.txt and add these 5 entries to the end of the file, as a new line each:

order_quartermaster_days
order_quartermaster_asked_for_speedup
order_quartermaster_modifier
order_quartermaster_item
order_quartermaster_days_initial


Make sure to still have an empty line at the very end.

2) Open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter at the top of the file by 4 (3139 -> 3143), and put these 3 strings to the end of the file (as a new line each):

qstr_upgr_horse_champion is_a_magnificent_beast,_just_short_of_perfection
qstr_upgr_horse_spirited is_a_durable_mount,_but_could_stand_to_be_faster
qstr_upgr_horse_heavy is_weak_physically,_but_we_can_build_up_its_strength
qstr_order_horse_ready The_Order_quartermaster_sends_a_message_that_your_horse_is_ready!


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end of the file.

3) Next, open dialog_states.txt and add the following 10 entries to the end of the file:

order_quartermaster_player_response_b
order_quartermaster_1_b
order_quartermaster_2_b
order_quartermaster_3_b
order_quartermaster_training_status
order_quartermaster_speedup
order_quartermaster_speedup_1
order_quartermaster_speedup_2
order_quartermaster_speedup_3
order_quartermaster_pickup_horse


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

4) Then, open conversation.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 19 (4152 -> 4171), find the line that starts with dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:order_quartermaster_1 and add the following 19 lines after it, as a new line each:

dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:order_quartermaster_player_response_b 66733 1853  1 31 2 144115188075857320 0 Have_some_of_the_squires_train_my_horse.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response_b:order_quartermaster_1_b 66733 1874  10 1541 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 8 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 1542 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 8 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 36 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 2325 2 5 1224979098644774912 Improve_{s5}  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response_b:order_quartermaster_1 66733 1874  0 Nevermind.  1854  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_1_b:order_quartermaster_2_b 1197 1875  17 1541 3 144115188075857323 360287970189639680 8 1542 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 8 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 35 2133 2 144115188075857322 36 2320 2 9 1585267068834417731 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 18 2133 2 144115188075857322 35 2320 2 9 1585267068834417732 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857322 18 2320 2 9 1585267068834417733 3 0 2133 2 144115188075857320 21 2325 2 10 144115188075857323 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857320 Let_me_take_a_look..._Hmm,_your_{s10}_{s9}.^We'll_need_{reg1}_days_to_train_your_horse._Would_that_be_convenient_for_you_Grandmaster?  1876  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_2_b:order_quartermaster_3_b 66733 1876  0 Yes,_go_ahead.  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_2_b:order_quartermaster_1 66733 1876  0 No,_that's_too_long_for_me.  1854  1 2133 2 144115188075857320 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_3_b:close_window 1197 1877  0 Very_well,_I'll_have_the_squires_train_your_horse.  6  3 2133 2 144115188075857324 144115188075857320 2133 2 144115188075857321 0 1543 3 360287970189639680 8 -1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:order_quartermaster_training_status 66733 1853  1 32 2 144115188075857320 0 How_goes_the_horse_training?  1878  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_training_status:order_quartermaster_speedup 1197 1878  1 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857320 I'm_still_working_on_training_your_horse,_please_be_patient._It_will_be_ready_in_{reg1}_days_time.  1879  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_speedup:order_quartermaster_speedup_1 66733 1879  2 30 2 144115188075857320 3 31 2 144115188075857321 0 Is_there_anything_I_can_do_to_speed_up_this_process?  1880  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_speedup:order_quartermaster_1 66733 1879  0 Take_your_time,_Quartermaster.  1854  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_speedup_1:order_quartermaster_speedup_2 1197 1880  29 2133 2 1224979098644774912 100 4 0 31 2 144115188075857322 36 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1450 5 0 31 2 144115188075857322 35 2133 2 1224979098644774912 650 5 0 31 2 144115188075857322 18 2133 2 1224979098644774912 190 3 0 2701 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075857323 2107 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2108 2 1224979098644774913 100 1685 3 1224979098644774914 648518346341351424 0 2107 2 1224979098644774914 5 2121 3 1224979098644774915 200 1224979098644774914 2107 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 2108 2 1224979098644774913 100 2107 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075857320 2108 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075857324 2107 2 1224979098644774913 50 2108 2 1224979098644774913 100 2111 2 1224979098644774913 500 2133 2 72057594037927969 1224979098644774913 2122 3 1224979098644774916 144115188075857320 2 2108 2 1224979098644774916 3 2111 2 1224979098644774916 2 2133 2 72057594037927970 1224979098644774916 Hmm_..._I_suppose_I_could_ask_some_of_the_knights_to_help_with_the_task.__I_may_be_able_to_reduce_the_training_time_by_a_third_for_{reg33}_denars._^^Shall_I_do_that,_Grandmaster?  1881  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_speedup_2:order_quartermaster_speedup_3 66733 1881  2 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927969 Yes,_spare_no_expense_and_arrange_everything_needed.  1882  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_speedup_2:order_quartermaster_1 66733 1881  2 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927969 I_think_it's_best_to_wait_for_now.  1854  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_speedup_2:order_quartermaster_1.1 66733 1881  2 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927969 I_can't_afford_all_that_currently._Maybe_another_time.  1854  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_speedup_3:order_quartermaster_1 1197 1882  0 As_you_wish,_Grandmaster._Your_horse_should_be_ready_within_{reg34}_days.  1854  3 1529 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927969 2133 2 144115188075857320 72057594037927970 2133 2 144115188075857321 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:order_quartermaster_pickup_horse 66733 1853  1 31 2 144115188075857320 -1 I_received_word_that_my_horse_is_ready.  1883  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_pickup_horse:order_quartermaster_1 1197 1883  5 2133 2 144115188075855914 0 1540 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075855914 1 2325 2 10 144115188075857323 Ah,_here_you_are_at_last,_Grandmaster._I_have_your_{s10}_right_here.  1854  3 2133 2 144115188075857320 0 2133 2 144115188075857321 0 1530 3 360287970189639680 144115188075857323 144115188075857322 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_order_quartermaster_pickup_horse:order_quartermaster_1.1 1197 1883  1 31 2 144115188075855914 0 I_have_your_horse_ready,_but_your_inventory_is_full.  1854  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


That 21 in the 4th conversation line is the amount of days an upgrade takes. The money calculation for speeding up the training process gets done in the 12th conversation line as follows:

The process to be sped up needs to take at least 3 days by default
A cost modifier gets assigned: 1450 for spirited horses, 650 for heavy horses, 190 for lame, swaybacked, stubborn and normal horses.
This modifier gets multiplied with the base cost of the horse itself, and then divided by 100
As a reduction factor for the cost, your Trade skill gets taken into consideration: 200 - 5*Trade_Skill
The result from point 3. gets multiplied with the reduction factor, then divided by 100
The final result will be that of the previous result, multiplied by 50 and divided by 100
A minimum cost of 500 denars gets designated

Change the above values to your liking!

5) Open simple_triggers.txt and find this piece of code:

102 4 0 546 3 504403158265495619 11 6 32 2 144115188075857205 0 2106 2 144115188075857205 1 31 2 144115188075857205 0 501 3 648518346341351601 10 720575940379279817 501 3 648518346341351601 11 720575940379279581 1106 1 1585267068834416788 600 1 1152921504606847261 3 0 4 0 32 2 144115188075857206 0 2106 2 144115188075857206 1 31 2 144115188075857206 0 2133 2 144115188075857206 -1 1106 1 1585267068834416789


Raplace it with this:

110 4 0 546 3 504403158265495619 11 6 32 2 144115188075857205 0 2106 2 144115188075857205 1 31 2 144115188075857205 0 501 3 648518346341351601 10 720575940379279817 501 3 648518346341351601 11 720575940379279581 1106 1 1585267068834416788 600 1 1152921504606847261 3 0 4 0 32 2 144115188075857206 0 2106 2 144115188075857206 1 31 2 144115188075857206 0 2133 2 144115188075857206 -1 1106 1 1585267068834416789 600 1 1152921504606847261 3 0 4 0 32 2 144115188075857320 0 2106 2 144115188075857320 1 31 2 144115188075857320 0 2133 2 144115188075857320 -1 1106 1 1585267068834417734


Watch for the gaps, so that exactly remains before and after the replacement!

6) Lastly, make sure that the highlighted dialog_state numbers in each line from point 4) match the values calculated in point 3), and that the following IDs match with the formulas down below (line numbers stated are within point 4). It is only needed to check them if you added something else to dialog_states.txt, variables.txt and quick_strings.txt respectively, due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1, 2 & 3) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_player_response_b
1875 (line 2 & 4) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_1_b
1876 (line 4, 5 & 6) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_2_b
1877 (line 5 & 7) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_3_b
1878 (line 8 & 9) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_training_status
1879 (line 9, 10 & 11) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_speedup
1880 (line 10 & 12) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_speedup_1
1881 (line 12, 13, 14 & 15) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_speedup_2
1882 (line 13 & 16) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_speedup_3
1883 (line 17, 18 & 19) with the number you got for order_quartermaster_pickup_horse
144115188075857320 (line 1, 4 (2 instances), 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 (2 instances), 16, 17 & 18 and point 5) (4 instances)) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of order_quartermaster_days in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857321 (line 7, 10, 16 & 18) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of order_quartermaster_asked_for_speedup in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857322 (line 4 (3 instances), 12 (3 instances) & 18) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of order_quartermaster_modifier in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857323 (line 4 (2 instances), 12 & 18 (2 instances)) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of order_quartermaster_item in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857324 (line 7 & 12) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of order_quartermaster_days_initial in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 (line 4) with the number you get for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_upgr_horse_champion in quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417732 (line 4) with the number you get for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_upgr_horse_spirited in quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417733 (line 4) with the number you get for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_upgr_horse_heavy in quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417734 (point 5) with the number you get for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_order_horse_ready in quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 2 e)

To receive an honorary reward for conquering the Snake Cult Stronghold for the knighthood order you joined - credits to VonDegurechaff

This tweak will make Quartermaster Kailin train a horse of your choice to 'Champion' state after speaking to him the first time.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following 2 entries to the end of the file:

castle_horse_training_free
castle_horse_training_free1


2) Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 3 (4152 -> 4155)

4) Then find this line:

dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:order_quartermaster_1 66733 1853  0 Show_me_your_supplies.  1854  1 2042 0 NO_VOICEOVER


5) And add these 3 lines after it, as a new line each:

dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:castle_horse_training_free 66733 1853  1 540 3 144115188075855892 80 1 That_would_be_all,_Quartermaster.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_castle_horse_training_free:castle_horse_training_free1 1197 1874  0 Wait,_Grandmaster!_Please_accept_this_gift_as_a_token_of_my_gratitude_for_conquering_this_stronghold_in_the_name_of_our_Order!^_I_can_train_one_of_your_horses_to_an_unmatched_level.  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_castle_horse_training_free1:close_window 83117 1875  13 50 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 0 1541 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 -1 33 3 1224979098644774913 288230376151711902 288230376151711982 4 0 1570 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 1542 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774915 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 3 0 2319 1 12 2325 2 12 1224979098644774913 {s12}  6  3 50 1 144115188075855961 500 3 144115188075855892 80 2 1544 3 360287970189639680 144115188075855961 36 NO_VOICEOVER


6) Make sure that the highlighted numbers above (castle_horse_training_free in 1st and 2nd lines, castle_horse_training_free1 in 2nd and 3rd lines) match the values calculated in point 2). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt. Otherwise the above will work as is.

7) Lastly, find this line:

dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:close_window 66733 1853  0 That_would_be_all,_Quartermaster.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER


8) And replace it with this:

dlga_order_quartermaster_player_response:close_window 66733 1853  1 2147484188 3 144115188075855892 80 1 That_would_be_all,_Quartermaster.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER


Tweak 2 f)

To change the time it takes to rebuild the Order Stronghold - credits to LieutenantNicolas

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code under the line starting with dlga_start:close_window.67:

2133 2 144115188075857205 60


That 60 is the amount of days the rebuilding takes. Change it to your liking! Changing it to 0 will result in not getting rebuilt ever, that's also an option if your prefer to keep the original wooden layout.

2) Last but not least, find the below piece in the same line and change the highlighted part to reflect your edited worktime:

work_should_be_completed_in_about_2_months.


Tweak 2 g)

To guarantee KO chapters at a new game's start - credits to BananaFruit and VonDegurechaff

This tweak requires a new game to take effect!

File: scripts.txt

1) For Silvermists in Senderfall, search for:

31 501 3 648518346341351456 289 360287970189640021


And change 31 to 100

2) For Ebony Gauntlet in Avendor, search for:

31 501 3 648518346341351461 289 360287970189640019 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 46 501 3 648518346341351461 289 360287970189640015


And change both 31 (KotEG) and 46 (Raven Spear) to 100

The secondary choice (Raven Spear in this case) gets the difference of the two chances, which will be 0%

3) For Radiant Cross in Ethos, search for:

81 501 3 648518346341351448 289 360287970189640016 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 91 501 3 648518346341351448 289 360287970189640010


And change both 81 (Radiant Cross) and 91 (Immortal) to 100

The secondary choice (Immortals in this case) gets the difference of the two chances, which will be 0%

4) For Falcons in Falcondark Castle, search for:

51 501 3 648518346341351500 289 360287970189640014


And change 51 to 100

5) For Windriders in Nal Tar, search for:

21 501 3 648518346341351462 289 360287970189640011


And change 21 to 100

6) For Dragons in Ravenstern, search for:

31 501 3 648518346341351453 289 360287970189640008


And change 31 to 100

7) For Lions in Marleons, search for:

11 501 3 648518346341351452 289 360287970189640009


And change 11 to 100

8) For Phoenix, only do 1 of the following 3 options depending on your preference, and reduce the counter at the beginning of the entire script by 5 (158 -> 153). Search for:

2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 33 501 3 648518346341351464 289 360287970189640023 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 66 501 3 648518346341351477 289 360287970189640023 5 0 501 3 648518346341351479 289 360287970189640023 3 0

To guarantee a chapter in Calendain Castle, replace it with this:
2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351464 289 360287970189640023 3 0

To guarantee a chapter in Maras Castle, replace it with this:
2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351477 289 360287970189640023 3 0

To guarantee a chapter in Almerra Castle, replace it with this:
2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351479 289 360287970189640023 3 0


9) For Shadow Wolves, only do 1 of the following 3 options depending on your preference, and reduce the counter at the beginning of the entire script by 5 (158 -> 153). Search for:

2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 33 501 3 648518346341351472 289 360287970189640024 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 66 501 3 648518346341351478 289 360287970189640024 5 0 501 3 648518346341351491 289 360287970189640024 3 0

To guarantee a chapter in Walven Castle, replace it with this:
2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351472 289 360287970189640024 3 0

To guarantee a chapter in Savador Castle, replace it with this:
2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351478 289 360287970189640024 3 0

To guarantee a chapter in Oregar Castle, replace it with this:
2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351491 289 360287970189640024 3 0


10) All those numbers above starting with 3602879701896400 represent a given KO knight, which is used for generating a respective KO chapter. The given knight's entry number (easy to check in Morgh's Editor) added to the troop constant (360287970189639680) indicates the different chapters that you are looking at within the script called "pop2_location_improvements". You can also change these values accordingly to make other KO's be in the given fiefs instead. Furthermore, you can find the rest of guaranteed chapters by searching for the given KO's knights. For instance, 360287970189640017 means Ranger of the Clarion Call (360287970189639680 + 337), and there's only one such number in the body of the script, so you've found the chapter for Laria. Changing that 360287970189640017 to 360287970189640019 (360287970189639680 + 339) will cause Ebony Gauntlets be in Laria instead of Clarion Call.

11) To simply guarantee all KO chapters, as well as to set up a secondary Valkyrie chapter in Gunders Lodge so that Fierdsvain does not lag behind other factions, replace everything in the body of the pop2_location_improvements script with this:

149 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351594 1 2 936748722493063773 -1 501 3 1224979098644774912 291 72057594037927993 3 0 501 3 648518346341351458 289 360287970189640008 501 3 648518346341351451 289 360287970189640009 501 3 648518346341351450 289 360287970189640010 501 3 648518346341351455 289 360287970189640011 501 3 648518346341351454 289 360287970189640015 501 3 648518346341351446 289 360287970189640012 501 3 648518346341351449 289 360287970189640017 501 3 648518346341351459 289 360287970189640022 501 3 648518346341351460 289 360287970189640020 501 3 648518346341351447 289 360287970189640018 501 3 648518346341351463 289 360287970189640025 501 3 648518346341351457 289 360287970189640026 501 3 648518346341351497 289 360287970189640012 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351448 289 360287970189640016 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351448 289 360287970189640010 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351452 289 360287970189640009 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351453 289 360287970189640008 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351456 289 360287970189640021 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351461 289 360287970189640019 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351461 289 360287970189640015 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351462 289 360287970189640011 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351500 289 360287970189640014 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351479 289 360287970189640023 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 648518346341351478 289 360287970189640024 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 2136 3 1224979098644774913 0 401 2105 2 1224979098644774913 800 501 3 1224979098644774912 290 1224979098644774913 501 3 1224979098644774912 26 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351464 648518346341351504 2136 3 1224979098644774913 0 201 2105 2 1224979098644774913 100 501 3 1224979098644774912 290 1224979098644774913 501 3 1224979098644774912 26 0 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640621 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351504 648518346341351594 2136 3 1224979098644774913 0 201 2105 2 1224979098644774913 200 501 3 1224979098644774912 290 1224979098644774913 501 3 1224979098644774912 293 1224979098644774914 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 501 3 1224979098644774912 26 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 6 3 1224979098644774915 262 289 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774916 9 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 5 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774916 33 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1 3 0 501 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774917 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 1 4 936748722493063775 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1 501 3 1224979098644774912 26 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351464 648518346341351504 6 3 1224979098644774915 260 276 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774916 9 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 5 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774916 33 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1 3 0 501 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774917 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 1 4 936748722493063775 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1 501 3 1224979098644774912 26 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351504 648518346341351594 6 3 1224979098644774915 250 273 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774916 9 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 5 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774916 33 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1 3 0 501 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774917 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 1 4 936748722493063775 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1 501 3 1224979098644774912 26 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 501 3 1224979098644774912 349 0 3 0 


Watch for the gap at the start!

Tweak 2 h)

To increase the chance of kings creating KO chapters in their walled fiefs - credits to Timon

It often happens in the game that certain knighthood orders do not start with a chapter, and waiting for a king to establish the one you are looking for might take an eternity. You can, of course, use tweaks to set up these orders in specific castles/towns, but it is more fun and interesting to see things evolve on their own, as you play the game! Therefore, in this tweak, we will increase the chance of kings randomly creating knighthood order chapters that don't exist in the game yet. Also, we will remove the unnecessary requirements for that, like the 1 year in-game playing time needed, or that the player must be above level 30. Keep in mind that kings will never found a chapter of the Order of the Griffon.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

384.000000  120 2272 1 1224979098644774912 32 2 1224979098644774912 365 2171 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 32 2 1224979098644774913 30 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 5


2) And replace it with this:

384.000000  116 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 15


Watch for the gaps.

3) The 15 in the end is the chance for a king to create a KO chapter that is not present on the world map yet (except for Griffons). Change it to something else if you want. The default value of 15 means that by 500 in-game days, around 4 new orders will be founded, which means that there should be no orders left without a chapter by that time (except for Griffons). That is, if you were really unlucky and didn't start with an Ebony Gaunlet, Silvermist, Falcon or Radiant Cross chapter either.

Tweak 2 i)

To add Knighthood Order chapters into the game - credits to Leonion and VonDegurechaff

In this tweak, there will be 3 different ways shown for adding KO chapters:

before a new game's start (this will require a new game to take effect!)
with the help of cheatmenu
with an in-game conversation

Pick the method of your choice!

First, the method about adding chapters before a new game's start will be shown. In the example below, we will add an Ebony Gauntlet chapter to Seven Cross Keep, with instructions on how to add more chapters and how to adjust them to have the desired outcome.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code under the script called pop2_location_improvements:

501 3 648518346341351457 289 360287970189640026


2) Right after it, separated by 1 gap, add the following piece:

501 3 648518346341351489 289 360287970189640019


The number 648518346341351489 is Seven Cross Keep's party number, which you can adjust to your liking by opening up the Parties Editor inside Morgh's Editor, and make the value correspond to the following calculation: 648518346341351424 + № of the given fief's entry (65 in case of Seven Cross Keep). Likewise, 360287970189640019 is the Knight of the Ebony Gauntlet's troop number, which you can change by opening the Troop Editor within Morgh's Editor, and make the value correspond to the following calculation: 360287970189639680 + № of the given troop's entry number (339 in case of Knight of the Ebony Gauntlet). Keep in mind that for each KO chapter, the troop number set must be that of the given knight, and not the sergeant! The script responsible for creating KO chapters is looking for KO knight troop numbers.

3) Then, increase the counter at the beginning of the script by 1 (158 -> 159). If you want to add more chapters to fiefs before a new game's start, then just repeat step 2) & this one until you are done. This means that overall, you need to increase the previously mentioned counter by the amount of chapters added (pieces of code from point 2).


Next comes the method about using the cheatmenu, which you'll have to enable in the end. This approach is savegame-compatible, unlike the previous one. The option to create KO chapters mid-game will be added to the "Cheat Menu Vader" -> "Test Player Order ..." cheat submenu. The example shown will be the same: adding an Ebony Gauntlet chapter to Seven Cross Keep and then adjusting it for a different result.

File: menus.txt

1) Find the following piece of code:

mno_join  0  Join_Sarleon_and_take_over_Avendor.


2) To before it, to the beginning of the line, add this piece of code:

mno_cregsevkeep  0  Create_Knights_of_EG_in_Seven_Cross_Keep  1 501 3 648518346341351489 289 360287970189640019  .


Watch for the gap at the beginning of the line, leave it be.

3) Make sure that you have exactly 2 gaps between the full-stop (.) and "mno_join 0 Join_Sarleon_and_take_over_Avendor.". So that the result will look like this:

mno_cregsevkeep  0  Create_Knights_of_EG_in_Seven_Keep  1 501 3 648518346341351489 289 360287970189640019  .  mno_join  0  Join_Sarleon_and_take_over_Avendor.


The number 648518346341351489 is Seven Cross Keep's party number, which you can adjust to your liking by opening up the Parties Editor inside Morgh's Editor, and make the value correspond to the following calculation: 648518346341351424 + № of the given fief's entry (65 in case of Seven Cross Keep). Likewise, 360287970189640019 is the Knight of the Ebony Gauntlet's troop number, which you can change by opening the Troop Editor within Morgh's Editor, and make the value correspond to the following calculation: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop (339 in case of Knight of the Ebony Gauntlet). Keep in mind that for each KO chapter, the troop number set must be that of the given knight, and not the sergeant! The script responsible for creating KO chapters is looking for KO knight troop numbers.

4) Next, find this line above:

menu_camp_ownorder 0 Select_an_option: none 0 5


And increase that 5 (submenu counter) by 1.

5) If you want to add more chapters with the help of the submenu above, then just repeat steps 2) & 4) until you are done, with the menu description (Create_Knights_of_EG_in_Seven_Cross_Keep) getting adjusted for each separate option. This means that overall, you need to increase the previously mentioned counter by the amount of chapters/options added (pieces of code from point 2).


And at last comes the approach about an in-game conversation. With this tweak, upon having cheats enabled (or not needed if you make the adjustment down below), you can talk to Ramun the Slave Trader and establish any KO chapter in a castle or town of your choice. But be warned, you will have to adjust the code for each different KO and for each targeted fief.

File: conversation.txt

1) Increase the counter found in the 2nd line by 1 (4152 -> 4153)

2) Add the following piece of code to the very end of the file, as a new line:

dlga_ramun_talk:ramun_leave.1 69631 94  1 31 2 144115188075856146 1 Create_order.  6  1 501 3 648518346341351424 289 360287970189639680 NO_VOICEOVER


If you want to disable the need to have cheats enabled in order to see the above option in-game, then replace 1 31 2 144115188075856146 1 with 0

3) Adjust the highlighted numbers to your liking, based on the following addition:

648518346341351424 + the sequence number of the castle / city you want to add a chapter to (you can check the sequence number with the "Parties Editor" section of Morgh's Editor)
360287970189639680 + the sequence number of the knight (!) of the order of your choice (you can check the sequence number with the "Troops Editor" section of Morgh's Editor)

4) Make sure to have an empty line at the very end of the file. If you want to create multiple KO chapters with the above conversation option, then add further pieces of 501 3 648518346341351424 289 360287970189639680 right after the same piece, separated by 1 gap each. Then adjust the numbers as shown in the previous point. Also, increase the operation counter of 1 by the amount of pieces added. The conversation line for adding 3 KO chapters at once should look like this (just an example):

dlga_ramun_talk:ramun_leave.1 69631 94  1 31 2 144115188075856146 1 Create_the_3_orders.  6  3 501 3 648518346341351424 289 360287970189639680 501 3 648518346341351424 289 360287970189639680 501 3 648518346341351424 289 360287970189639680 NO_VOICEOVER


5) Now start up your game, go to Ramun with or without cheats enabled (depending on your choice above) and check if you can see the newly added option.

Tweak 2 j)

To be able to create KO chapters in any walled fief (of your own kingdom) - credits to SirArtyr, Leonion and VonDegurechaff

This tweak will add the "I want to create a chapter of a Knighthood Order..." conversation option to any senechal in your own kingdom, or alternatively to all senechals in the game. In case of the former option - as a king/queen - you will no longer have to be the lord of the given fief to be able to create a KO chapter in it. In case of the latter option, it doesn't matter if the fief is owned by another faction or if it's unassigned. Either way, the added conversation options will be outside of the "War Room" submenu and the requirements to create chapters will stay the same. Also, note that this is an added option, so if you want to dismantle and create chapters the normal way, then use the "War Room" submenu, which is left intact. The new option won't check if there's already a chapter in the walled fief or not, so it will overwrite the current chapter with the new one right away.

Unwanted side-effect: since the option to create a KO chapter can normally be found within the War Room menu, after creating a chapter, you will be brought back to that menu, allowing you to access the noble recruits, as well as to buy a baggage train. I you don't want to use this exploit, then simply quit from the conversation.

File: conversation.txt

1) Increase the counter found in the 2nd line by 1 (4152 -> 4153)

2) To be able to create KO chapters in every walled fief, add this line to the end of the file:

dlga_steward_menu:pop2_war_room_create_order2 69631 993  0 I_want_to_create_a_chapter_of_a_Knighthood_Order...  1010  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of conversation.txt.

3) To be able to create KO chapters in any walled fief of your kingdom, find the line that starts with dlga_steward_menu:pop2_war_room_menu and add the following piece of code after it, as a new line:

dlga_steward_menu:pop2_war_room_create_order 69631 993  3 2204 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075856143 31 2 1224979098644774915 432345564227567630 541 3 144115188075856143 289 0 I_want_to_create_a_chapter_of_a_Knighthood_Order...  1010  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 2 k)

To remove the requirements to create KO chapters - credits to Dalion

File: conversation.txt

1) To remove the requirements to create Falcons (no longer need Madame Ursula or Sir Rayne in your party), find this piece:

pop2_war_room_create_order_after 81919 1010  207 50 1


Reduce the 207 by 2 (207 -> 205), then find and delete this piece:

1073741934 1 360287970189640311 110 1 360287970189640193


Make sure that only 1 gap remains at the place of the removed part

2) You can also remove ALL requirements for creating KO chapters. This way, whenever you will be in the "War Room" conversation option with your own senechal, you will have access to create any knighthood order's chapter, without any further requirements. No gold, no honor, no qualis gems, no cultures, no owning a particular town, no relationships with the specific order, no specific companions/claimants in your party will be needed. To do so, find the line that starts with this piece of code:

dlga_pop2_war_room_create_order:pop2_war_room_create_order_after


And replace the whole entry with this one:

dlga_pop2_war_room_create_order:pop2_war_room_create_order_after 81919 1010  88 50 1 1224979098644774912 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640008 360287970189640028 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640008 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417412 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640009 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417413 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640010 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417414 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640011 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417415 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640012 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417416 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640013 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417417 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640014 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417418 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640015 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417419 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640016 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417420 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640017 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417421 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640018 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417422 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640019 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417423 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640020 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417424 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640021 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417425 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640022 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417426 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640023 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417427 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640024 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417428 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640025 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417429 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640026 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417430 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640027 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 2335 2 9 432345564227567679 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 1 2 936748722493063777 1224979098644774912 2322 2 8 72057594037927957 2320 2 7 1585267068834417431 Create_{s7}  1030  15 50 1 1224979098644774912 501 3 144115188075856143 289 1224979098644774912 2173 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1 3 936748722493063445 1224979098644774913 10 1 3 936748722493063860 1224979098644774913 20 522 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 100 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774914 0 1 3 936748722493063445 1224979098644774914 -20 3 0 522 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 101 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774914 0 1 3 936748722493063445 1224979098644774914 -20 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 2 l)

To enable dismantling KO chapters in any of your own faction's walled fiefs - credits to Fuyushi

Unwanted side-effect: since the option to dismantle a KO chapter can normally be found within the War Room menu, after dismantling a chapter, you will be brought back to that menu, allowing you to access the noble recruits, as well as to buy a baggage train. I you don't want to use this exploit, then simply quit from the conversation.

File: conversation.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153)

2) Then find the line that starts with dlga_steward_menu:pop_diplomacy_menu_sub_tourney, and add the following one after it, as a new line:

dlga_steward_menu:dismantle_ko_confirm 69631 993  5 2204 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075856143 31 2 1224979098644774915 432345564227567630 522 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856957 11 542 3 144115188075856294 11 360287970189639680 561 3 144115188075856143 289 1 I_want_to_dismantle_the_Knighthood_Order_that_is_established_here.  1014  0 NO_VOICEOVER


Tweak 2 m)

To change the entry troops and prestige costs of KO induction - credits to Dalion

Files:

scripts.txt
conversation.txt

1) To change the troops you can induct into KO units, open scripts.txt and find this piece of code under the script called get_knighthood_order_info:

31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640008 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639798 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639790 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640009 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639779 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639774 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640010 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639848 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640011 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639818 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639815 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640012 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639839 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639828 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640013 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639874 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640014 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639921 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639921 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640015 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639798 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639744 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640016 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639743 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640017 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639779 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639773 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640018 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639904 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640019 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639878 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639871 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640020 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639856 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640021 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639883 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639870 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640022 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639978 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640023 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639860 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640024 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639853 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640025 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639818 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639808 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640026 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639839 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639827 5 0


The highlighted numbers above mean the following:

Black numbers - the given knighthood order, indicated by its knight's troop ID number
Red numbers - the troop ID of the troop training into knights of the given order
Blue numbers - the troop ID of the troop training into sergeants of the given order

Namely:

360287970189640008 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639798 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639790


Order of the Dragon -- Ravenstern Knight -- Ravenstern Kierguard

360287970189640009 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639779 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639774


Order of the Lion -- Sarleon Knight -- Sarleon Man-at-Arms

360287970189640010 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639848


Empire Immortals -- Empire Knight -- Empire Legionnaire

360287970189640011 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639818 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639815


D'Shar Windriders -- D'Shar Noble Cavalry -- D'Shar Ghazi Reaver

360287970189640012 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639839 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639828


Valkyries Sisterhood -- Fierdsvain Hersir -- Fierdsvain Huntress

360287970189640013 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639874


Order of the Griffon -- Pendor Knight -- Pendor Mtd. Man-at-Arms

360287970189640014 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639921 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639921


Order of the Falcon -- Maiden Adventurer -- Maiden Adventurer (360287970189639920 would be Maiden Cavalry for Talons of the Falcon, a recommended adjustment)

360287970189640015 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639798 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639744


Order of the Raven Spear -- Ravenstern Knight -- Mercenary Horseman

360287970189640016 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639743


Order of the Radiant Cross -- Pendor Knight -- Mercenary Sharpshooter

360287970189640017 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639779 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639773


Order of the Clarion Call -- Sarleon Knight -- Sarleon Armored Longbowman

360287970189640018 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639904


Order of the Dawn -- Pendor Knight -- Vanskerry Warrior

360287970189640019 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639878 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639871


Order of the Ebony Gauntlet -- Pendor Foot Knight -- Pendor Man-at-Arms

360287970189640020 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639856


Order of the Shadow Legion -- Empire Knight -- Empire Armored Pikeman

360287970189640021 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639883 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639870


Order of the Silvermist Rangers -- Pendor Black Archer -- Pendor Heavy Spearman

360287970189640022 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639978


Order of Eventide -- Pendor Knight -- Singalian Horseman

360287970189640023 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639860


Order of the Phoenix -- Empire Knight -- Empire Cavalry

360287970189640024 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639853


Order of the Shadow Wolves -- Empire Knight -- Empire Armored Crossbowman

360287970189640025 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639818 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639808


Order of the Scorpion Assassins -- D'Shar Noble Cavalry -- D'Shar Ghazi Spearman

360287970189640026 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639839 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639827


Order of the Kraken Cultists -- Fierdsvain Hersir -- Fierdsvain Spear Maiden Change the above troops to your liking. Just open up the Troops Editor within Morgh's Editor, find the entry number of the unit of your choice (Maiden Cavalry is #240), then add this number to the "troop constant" which is 360287970189639680 and put the resulting number into the place of the given red or blue number.

2) To change the prestige costs and multipliers of inducting KO units, open conversation.txt and find this piece of code:

dlga_pop2_war_room_train_order_troops:pop2_war_room_train_order_troops 4095 1011  0 {s2}.  1011  81 2319 1 2 520 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 156 2133 2 72057594037927940 144115188075856162 520 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 7 2106 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2133 2 72057594037927965 1224979098644774913 521 3 1224979098644774914 144115188075856143 289 1 2 936748722493063777 1224979098644774914 2121 3 72057594037927938 450 144115188075856162 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640012 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640014 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640020 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640023 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640026 2107 2 72057594037927938 130 2108 2 72057594037927938 100 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640009 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640019 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640021 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640025 2107 2 72057594037927938 120 2108 2 72057594037927938 100 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640010 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640011 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640013 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640018 2107 2 72057594037927938 110 2108 2 72057594037927938 100 3 0 2121 3 72057594037927939 280 144115188075856162 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640022 2107 2 72057594037927939 150 2108 2 72057594037927939 100 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640013 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640016 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640023 2107 2 72057594037927939 140 2108 2 72057594037927939 100 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640009 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640019 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640026 2107 2 72057594037927939 130 2108 2 72057594037927939 100 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640012 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640015 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640018 2107 2 72057594037927939 120 2108 2 72057594037927939 100 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640014 2107 2 72057594037927939 110 2108 2 72057594037927939 100 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640027 2107 2 72057594037927938 125 2108 2 72057594037927938 100 2107 2 72057594037927939 125 2108 2 72057594037927939 100 5 0 2173 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 2190 3 1224979098644774916 432345564227567630 1224979098644774915 2121 3 1224979098644774917 200 1224979098644774916 2108 2 1224979098644774917 2 2107 2 72057594037927938 1224979098644774917 2108 2 72057594037927938 100 2107 2 72057594037927939 1224979098644774917 2108 2 72057594037927939 100 3 0 2108 2 72057594037927938 10 2112 3 72057594037927938 10 46 2108 2 72057594037927939 6 2112 3 72057594037927939 4 36 2320 2 2 1585267068834417411 NO_VOICEOVER


The highlighted black numbers above indicate knighthood order knights and sergeants respectively (360287970189639680 + EntryNumberOfTroop; sergeants are shown indirectly, through their knights), and they are divided into different prestige cost multiplier categories, as seen above:

130% (x1.3): Valkyrie, Knight of the Falcon, Shadow Legion Centurion, Knight of the Phoenix, Kraken Riddari
120% (x1.2): Knight of the Lion, Knight of the Ebony Gauntlet, Silvermist Ranger, Scorpion Assassin
110% (x1.1): Empire Immortal, D'Shar Windrider, Knight of the Griffon, Knight of the Dawn
150% (x1.5): Eventide Ghilman
140% (x1.4): Griffon Retainer, Radiant Cross Plaguewarden, Phoenix Risen
130% (x1.3): Squire of the Lion, Ebony Gauntlet Hammer, Storm Sister
120% (x1.2): Lady Einherjar, Raven Spear Mercenary, Dawn Wyvern
110% (x1.1): Talon of the Falcon
125% (x1.25): CKO knight
125% (x1.25): CKO sergeant
100% (x1.0): Every other knight
100% (x1.0): Every other sergeant

And towards the end of the line, there are the allowed base (relative to a x1.0 multiplier) minimum and maximum prestige costs of knights and sergeants respectively, based on the player's Honor rating:

Knights (min max): 10 46
Sergeants (min max): 4 36

Note however, that the actual maximum value will be "SetValue - 1". So the actual default ranges of base prestige costs are 10-45 and 4-35 respectively. Change these values to your liking.

Tweak 2 n)

To change the rate and the limit of the free KO garrison reinforcement - credits to Vetrogor and CRASHS

File: scripts.txt

1) To change the rate, find the following pieces of code:

2133 2 1224979098644774921 39 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 89

2133 2 1224979098644774921 4 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 10


For sergeants, change the 39 to 89 to restore the reinforcement rate prior to the nerf which came in v3.9 (was the same as for the AI). And for doing the same with knights, change the 4 to 10. The 89 and 10 are the spawn rate of KO sergeants and knights for the AI. The maximum value for these rates is 100.

2) As for the limit of the reinforcement: the condition for KO chapters to add knights is less than or equal to 30, and for sergants it is less than or equal to 50. The amount of actually added troops at a time is a random number chosen between 1 and 3. Therefore the overall maximum of KO knights and sergeants allowed to be added per garrison (with the same chapter) is 33 and 53 respectively, by default. This is the piece of code you need to find for sergeants:

1224979098644774919 2147483680 2 1224979098644774922 50


And this is the piece for knights:

1224979098644774914 2147483680 2 1224979098644774924 30


Change those values to your liking. Keep in mind that the actual maximum amount of knights and sergeants will be always +3 compared to the set value.

Tweak 2 o)

To change the amount, size, and frequency of KO patrols - credits to Timon and Leonion

This tweak is about KO patrols spawning on their own around castles and towns where they have a chapter, and not the patrols that you can create at the Order Stronghold! KO patrols can belong to either the hosting kingdom or to their own faction, and can either comprise of only knights ("solo"), or of both knights and sergeants ("co-op"). The former kind usually belongs to one of the 5 hosting kingdoms, but not always. The probability for these patrols to spawn is 15% by default, which gets triggered every 16 hours in-game for each castle/town that has a chapter.

Additionally, Knights of the Ebony Gauntlet and Silvermist Rangers can have "lost" patrols spawning independently in D'Shar lands, with the same mechanics as the above KO patrols (15% chance to spawn upon ever 16 hours). The major difference is that they share the same trigger: Knights of the Ebony Gauntlet get spawned with a 67% chance, and Silvermist Rangers with a 33% chance. This overall means that upon every 16 hours, there is a 10% chance (15% * 0,67) that an Ebony Gauntlet patrol, or a 5% chance (15% * 0,33) that a Silvermist patrol will spawn somewhere in the D'Shar mainland (triangle of Singal, Iskohman, and Torbah).

These patrols are quite rare on the world map by default, and increasing their frequency will add more flavor to the game, as well as easen up the befriending process (especially the Eventides). For changing this "frequency", it is advised to adjust the spawning chance and not the trigger's frequency, so that your gameplay performance will not suffer by any means. For adjusting the frequency of the trigger for spawning KO patrols, there is a separate tweak.

File: scripts.txt

1) To change the maximum amount of KO patrols allowed on the world map at a time, find this piece of code:

2310 2 1224979098644774925 576460752303423550 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 9


That 9 in the end is the limit.

2) To change the maximum amount of "lost" Ebony Gauntlet and Silvermist patrols allowed on the world map at a time, find this piece of code:

2310 2 1224979098644774925 576460752303423550 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 13


That 13 in the end is the limit.

3) To change the spawn chance of regular KO patrols from walled fiefs, find this piece:

1224979098644774914 1 2136 3 1224979098644774920 0 100 2147483680 2 1224979098644774920 15


That 15 in the end is the spawn chance.

4) To change the spawn chance of "lost" Ebony Gauntlet and Silvermist patrols, find this piece:

2136 3 1224979098644774928 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774928 15


That 15 in the end is the spawn chance.

5) To adjust the amount of knights and sergeants in "co-op" KO patrols, find this piece of code:

6 20 1610 3 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774923 2136 3 1224979098644774923 10 25


6 20 is the min-max range of knights, and the 10 25 is the min-max range of sergeants.

6) To adjust the amount of knights in "solo" KO patrols, find this piece of code:

1224979098644774913 5 0 2136 3 1224979098644774923 4 12


4 12 is the min-max range of knights.

7) To adjust the amount of knights in those "lost" Ebony Gauntlet and Silvermist patrols, find this piece:

1224979098644774915 68 2136 3 1224979098644774924 4 12


Once again, 4 12 is the min-max range of knights.

8) To guarantee sergeants in KO patrols, find this piece of code:

2136 3 1224979098644774917 0 100 2136 3 1224979098644774918 0 100


And change that 100 in the end to 1

Tweak 2 p)

To change the aggressiveness and initiative of KO war parties assisting you - credits to Brissenden

This tweak adds a new option to the beginning of the 'Camp' -> 'Take an action' menu, to set the aggressiveness (engage radius to pursue/attack enemy parties) and initiative (engage radius to help allies in battle) of the given KO War Party assisting you. All other KO parties' behaviour will be left intact. After a war party gets created (do not hire a mercenary company and have a chapter of a KO in your capital), navigate to the button and click on it, and then the aggressiveness and the initiative of the party will take the preset values. Note that if you want to, you have to change the settings out of the game, and then click on the option again in-game to make the changes apply.

According to the values set in this tweak, the war party will follow you undisturbed, ignoring enemies around you. But at the same time it will help you in case you decide to engage someone or to start a siege. Also, the war party will help allies who are already in battle with a common foe from a modest distance. If the radius of this initiative seems small, then you can add 5 to it, to make it become 25. Higher value is not advised, so that the war party's engage distance can remain controllable when cruising around allied battles.

File: menus.txt

1) Find this line:

menu_camp_action 4096 Choose_an_action: none 1 2031 1 1441151880758558777 10


2) Increase the counter at the end of it by 1 (10 -> 11), then locate the following piece:

 mno_camp_recruit_prisoners  11 105 1 1


3) Replace it with this:

 mno_aggro  0  Set_behaviour_of_KO_War_Party.  4 522 3 1224979098644774922 432345564227567630 73 30 2 1224979098644774922 1 1606 2 1224979098644774922 2 1639 2 1224979098644774922 20  .  mno_camp_recruit_prisoners  11 105 1 1


4) Watch for the gap at the beginning and at the end of the replaced content! 2 is the aggressiveness (can be 0-15) and 20 is the initiative set (can be 0-100). Change these values to your liking, according to the limits.

Tweak 2 q)

To fix the issue of KOs not keeping track of previous promotion rewards you are entitled to once you reach the next rank - credits to Countyboar

Without this fix, you might lose all outfit rewards and the access to the Order Stronghold as well, if say, you create 8-9 chapters of a KO in a row, reaching 300 rank points. Now what is rightfully yours will no longer be skipped! A word of notice however, you won't get back your already missed rewards retroactively.

File: conversation.txt

Find the line starting with dlga_start:hall_order_guard_talk and replace it with this:

dlga_start:hall_order_guard_talk 4095 0  19 31 2 144115188075856070 1 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640008 360287970189640028 540 3 360287970189639680 162 144115188075855892 522 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855894 72 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 6 1 2 936748722493063861 144115188075855894 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 4 0 1073741855 2 72057594037927936 2 1073741855 2 72057594037927936 4 1073741855 2 72057594037927936 5 1073741855 2 72057594037927936 6 31 2 72057594037927936 7 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 2167 1 1224979098644774914 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 6 Congratulations,_{playername},_your_constant_efforts_to_aid_our_cause_earned_you_the_right_to_call_yourself_{s8}_of_the_Order_of_the_{s12}.^Now,_what_can_I_do_for_you_on_this_auspicious_day?  1718  61 522 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855894 72 2120 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774913 502 3 144115188075855894 72 1224979098644774913 2106 2 72057594037927936 1 2105 2 72057594037927936 216172782113788729 2320 2 8 72057594037927936 2335 2 12 144115188075855894 600 1 1152921504606847609 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 0 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 4 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 5 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 2133 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075855892 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 2 522 3 1224979098644774914 144115188075855894 69 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2133 2 1224979098644774916 35 2133 2 1224979098644774917 25 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 2133 2 1224979098644774916 36 2133 2 1224979098644774917 27 3 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 0 6 3 1224979098644774918 4 8 1541 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774918 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774919 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640013 31 2 1224979098644774918 5 2133 2 1224979098644774919 288230376151712240 3 0 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774915 3 0 3 0 1541 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 8 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774919 0 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774916 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774918 0 4 1541 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774918 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774919 0 1570 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774919 31 2 1224979098644774920 7 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774917 3 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


That would be all.

Tweak 2 r)

To make KO units give you their full equipment upon asking to buy their armor sets - credits to BananaFruit

This tweak will get you all the items of a KO troop (except goods-type items like gold and various loot) displayed in [Reports -> Troop Trees -> Ko Knights/Sergeants] upon asking a KO troop in the castle hall for their armor set. Items that occur multiple times in the inventory of the troop will be given to you that many times.

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for this piece of code:

6  18 1529 2 360287970189639680 144115188075856010 2133 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 6 3 1224979098644774913 4 9 1541 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 0 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 4 1541 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 0 1570 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 31 2 1224979098644774915 7 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0


2) Replace it with this:

6  28 1529 2 360287970189639680 144115188075856010 2133 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 23 1541 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 0 1570 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 1 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 3 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 4 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 5 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 6 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 7 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 9 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 10 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 12 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 13 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 14 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 15 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 16 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 17 31 2 1224979098644774915 18 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0


3) Search for:

0 30 2 1224979098644774912 6


4) And change that 6 to 16

Tweak 2 s)

To change the prestige and gold cost of upgrading the quality of KO/CKO knights

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for this piece:

2133 2 72057594037927965 30 2133 2 72057594037927966 10000 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 2107 2 72057594037927965 3 2108 2 72057594037927965 2 2107 2 72057594037927966 2


2) The 30 is the starting prestige cost, which will get multiplied by 1.5 upon every upgrade. This factor consists of 3 as a multiplier and 2 as a divisor (3/2 = 1.5). 10000 is the starting gold cost, which will get multiplied by 2 after each upgrade. Change these values to your liking.

Tweak 2 t)

To be able to train sergeants too with the default training and adjust the stats given to both them and knights - credits to Dalion

By default, at your senechal's war room menu, you can only upgrade the quality of KO/CKO knights, but not that of sergeants, which is a shame for the money and prestige invested. With this tweak, the sergeants will also get half of what the knights get, namely +1 STR, +1 AGI and +10 weapon profs upon each upgrade level, which is a modest, yet fair change. Also, instead of the name of the knights, the name of the order will be listed in the respective dialogue option.

File: conversation.txt

1) Find the line that starts with dlga_pop2_war_room_menu:pop2_war_room_improve_troops and replace it entirely with this one:

dlga_pop2_war_room_menu:pop2_war_room_improve_troops 69631 991  4 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2173 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2335 2 1 1224979098644774913 I_want_to_improve_the_quality_of_the_{s1}.  1013  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


2) Then find the lines that start with dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops:pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response and dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response:pop2_war_room_improve_troops_done respectively (they are next to each other), and replace them entirely with these two:

dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops:pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response 4095 1013  9 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 162 2133 2 72057594037927965 30 2133 2 72057594037927966 10000 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 2107 2 72057594037927965 3 2108 2 72057594037927965 2 2107 2 72057594037927966 2 3 0 {reg63?M'Lord:M'Lady},_for_{reg30}_gold_and_{reg29}_Prestige_you_will_raise_your_Knights'_Strength_and_Agility_by_2_each_(and_by_1_for_the_Sergeants),_and_increase_all_their_weapon_proficiencies_by_20_(and_by_10_for_the_Sergeants).  1028  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response:pop2_war_room_improve_troops_done 69631 1028  10 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 156 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 7 2106 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774914 72057594037927965 30 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927966 521 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856143 289 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 2173 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 2335 2 1 1224979098644774916 Improve_the_{s1}.  1029  42 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 162 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1 500 3 1224979098644774912 162 1224979098644774913 1529 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927966 1520 3 1224979098644774912 0 2 1520 3 1224979098644774912 1 2 1523 3 1224979098644774912 0 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 1 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 2 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 4 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 3 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 5 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 6 20 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640027 1 4 936748722493063857 360287970189640027 360287970189640846 0 3 0 4 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 419 426 2121 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640852 419 2120 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 1 4 936748722493063857 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 2121 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 360287970189640008 2105 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189640065 1520 3 1224979098644774917 0 1 1520 3 1224979098644774917 1 1 1523 3 1224979098644774917 0 10 1523 3 1224979098644774917 1 10 1523 3 1224979098644774917 2 10 1523 3 1224979098644774917 4 10 1523 3 1224979098644774917 3 10 1523 3 1224979098644774917 5 10 1523 3 1224979098644774917 6 10 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189640084 1 4 936748722493063857 360287970189640084 360287970189640847 0 3 0 520 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 156 2105 2 1224979098644774916 72057594037927965 500 3 360287970189639680 156 1224979098644774916 NO_VOICEOVER 


The latter line contains the stats given to KO knights and sergeants. The highlighted values correspond to the following:

Strength of knights: 2
Dexterity of knights: 2
Weapon proficiencies of knights: 20 (7 instances)
Strength of sergeants: 1
Dexterity of sergeants: 1
Weapon proficiencies of sergeants: 10 (7 instances)

Change them to your liking!

Tweak 2 u)

Overhaul of KO upgrade system - credits to Leonion

This tweak changes the system that allows you to upgrade KOs (+2 STR, +2 AGI, +20 WP to knights exclusively, in exchange for money and prestige) in the following way:

You can upgrade each KO no more than 10 times
Cost:
30 (LvL 1), 30*5/4 (LvL 2), 30*5/4*5/4 (LvL 3), ... 213 (LvL 10) prestige
50000 (LvL 1), 50000*5/4 (Lvl 2), 50000*5/4*5/4 (Lvl 3), ... 372k (LvL 10) denars (total: 1,662,645)
Every-level bonuses (Kn = knight, Sg = sergeant, WP = Weapon Proficiencies):
Kn +10 WP, +1 STR, +1 AGI
Sg +5 WP
Relation +3...+12
Rank Points +X (exact values depend on your relation with KO)
Additional bonuses (IF = Ironflesh, PS = Power Strike, PT = Power Throw, PD = Power Draw):
LvL 1: Sg +10 WP
LvL 2: Sg +1 STR, +1 AGI
LvL 3: Sg +1 IF; Kn +1 IF
LvL 4: Sg +1 STR, +1 AGI
LvL 5: Sg +10 WP; Kn +10 WP
LvL 6: Sg +1 PS, +1 PT, +1 PD
LvL 7: Sg +1 STR, +1 AGI, +1 IF; Kn +1 IF
LvL 8: Kn +1 PS, +1 PT, +1 PD, +10 WP
LvL 9: Sg +1 STR, +1 AGI, +10 WP
LvL 10: Kn +1 PS, +1 PT, +1 PD; Sg +1 PS, +1 PT, +1 PD

File: conversation.txt

1) Find the following lines:

dlga_pop2_war_room_menu:pop2_war_room_improve_troops 69631 991  3 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2323 2 1 1224979098644774912 I_want_to_improve_the_quality_of_the_{s1}.  1013  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops:pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response 4095 1013  9 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 162 2133 2 72057594037927965 30 2133 2 72057594037927966 10000 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 2107 2 72057594037927965 3 2108 2 72057594037927965 2 2107 2 72057594037927966 2 3 0 {reg63?M'Lord:M'Lady},_for_{reg30}_gold_and_{reg29}_Prestige_you_will_raise_your_Honor_Troops'_Strength_and_Agility_by_2_each,_and_increase_all_weapon_proficiencies_by_20.  1028  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response:pop2_war_room_improve_troops_done 69631 1028  9 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 156 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 7 2106 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774914 72057594037927965 30 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927966 521 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856143 289 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 2323 2 1 1224979098644774915 Improve_the_{s1}.  1029  27 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 162 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1 500 3 1224979098644774912 162 1224979098644774913 1529 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927966 1520 3 1224979098644774912 0 2 1520 3 1224979098644774912 1 2 1523 3 1224979098644774912 0 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 1 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 2 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 4 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 3 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 5 20 1523 3 1224979098644774912 6 20 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640027 1 4 936748722493063857 360287970189640027 360287970189640846 0 3 0 4 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 419 426 2121 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640852 419 2120 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 1 4 936748722493063857 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 520 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 156 2105 2 1224979098644774916 72057594037927965 500 3 360287970189639680 156 1224979098644774916 NO_VOICEOVER


2) And replace them respectively with these:

dlga_pop2_war_room_menu:pop2_war_room_improve_troops 69631 991  5 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2323 2 1 1224979098644774912 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 162 2147483680 2 1224979098644774913 9 I_want_to_improve_the_quality_of_the_{s1}.  1013  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops:pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response 4095 1013  12 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 162 2133 2 72057594037927965 30 2133 2 72057594037927966 50000 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 2107 2 72057594037927965 5 2108 2 72057594037927965 4 2107 2 72057594037927966 5 2108 2 72057594037927966 4 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927962 1224979098644774913 2105 2 72057594037927962 1 {reg63?M'Lord:M'Lady},_for_{reg30}_gold_and_{reg29}_Prestige_your_Honor_troops_will_be_upgraded_to_level_{reg26}_of_the_special_training_program.  1028  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_pop2_war_room_improve_troops_response:pop2_war_room_menu 69631 1028  9 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 156 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 7 2106 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774914 72057594037927965 30 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927966 521 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856143 289 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 2323 2 1 1224979098644774915 Improve_the_{s1}.  991  75 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 289 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 162 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1 500 3 1224979098644774912 162 1224979098644774913 1529 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927966 2121 3 1224979098644774922 360287970189640065 360287970189640008 2105 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 1520 3 1224979098644774912 0 1 1520 3 1224979098644774912 1 1 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 6 1523 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774923 10 1523 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774923 5 3 0 2173 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774912 2120 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774913 2 1 3 936748722493063445 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774925 2120 3 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774913 4 1 3 936748722493063860 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774926 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 1 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 5 31 2 1224979098644774913 9 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 6 1523 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774923 10 3 0 3 0 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 5 31 2 1224979098644774913 8 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 6 1523 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774923 10 3 0 3 0 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 4 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 7 31 2 1224979098644774913 9 1520 3 1224979098644774922 0 1 1520 3 1224979098644774922 1 1 3 0 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 3 31 2 1224979098644774913 7 1521 3 1224979098644774912 36 1 1521 3 1224979098644774922 36 1 3 0 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 6 31 2 1224979098644774913 10 1521 3 1224979098644774922 35 1 1521 3 1224979098644774922 34 1 1521 3 1224979098644774922 33 1 3 0 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 8 31 2 1224979098644774913 10 1521 3 1224979098644774912 35 1 1521 3 1224979098644774912 34 1 1521 3 1224979098644774912 33 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640027 1 4 936748722493063857 360287970189640027 360287970189640846 0 1 4 936748722493063857 360287970189640084 360287970189640847 0 3 0 4 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640099 360287970189640106 2121 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640852 360287970189640099 2120 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 1 4 936748722493063857 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 520 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 156 2105 2 1224979098644774916 72057594037927965 500 3 360287970189639680 156 1224979098644774916 NO_VOICEOVER


The highlighted numbers from above mean the following:

9 (1st line): the amount of upgrades after which buying another standard upgrade (+10 WP, +1 STR, +1 AGI for knights and +5 WP for sergeants) is still available. Thus making it 9 + 1 = 10 levels by default.
30 (2nd line): base prestige cost
50000 (2nd line): base denar cost
5 and 4 (2nd line): the prestige multiplier and divisor of each further upgrade level
5 and 4 (2nd line): the denar multiplier and divisor of each further upgrade level

Change them to your liking if you wish so!

3. Custom Knighthood Order (10)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
3 a) To change the training times
3 b) To make CKO sergeants train just as high and fast as knights
3 c) To change the equipping times and costs
3 d) To set the starting stats and equipment of your CKO units to KO level and disable their training in return
3 e) Purchase CKO Equipment like from any other KO
3 f) To be able to do the grandmaster quest for your CKO
3 g) To unlock Sarleon and Ravenstern Armored Warhorses for your CKO
3 h) To unlock any item for your CKO and make sure they appear in the pools
3 i) To change the required relation to get Calanon's CKO unlocks
3 j) To change the units that your CKO knights and sergeants upgrade from


Tweak 3 a)

To change the training times - credits to Dusk Voyager

Don't apply this tweak while training is in progress!

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Search for:

18.000000  155 2133 2 1224979098644774912 -1


The 18.000000 is expressed in hours and it sets the frequency of training sessions (every 18 hours by default). For each training session, your CKO knights and sergeants have a chance (mostly based on the Trainer skill of the companion sent) to gain stats, skills and proficiency points.

2) Change that 18 to the number you want (e.g. 9 to halve the current training times)

Tweak 3 b)

To make CKO sergeants train just as high and fast as knights - credits to lconracl

Don't apply this tweak while training is in progress!

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) To make CKO sergeants train just as high as knights can, find these two pieces of code:

2121 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774920 30 32 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774921

4 0 32 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774921 2121 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774920 2


2) Change the 30 to 0, and the 32 to 30.

Tweak 3 c)

To change the equipping times and costs - credits to VonDegurechaff

Don't apply this tweak while equipping is in progress!

Files:

scripts.txt
conversation.txt

1) For the eqipping times, open scripts.txt and search for:

2108 2 1224979098644774920 100 2108 2 1224979098644774920


The 100 affects how long it takes for your CKO knights and sergeants to get new equipment. Increase that number to shorten the upgrade times.

The scale is not linear and it's a bit different for every item type. But at 1000, the upgrade time is cut to around 1/7 of the original value on average, and at 10000 coupled with 10% of the default time set in mod options, you can reach the bare minimum of 1 day for every item.

2) For the equipping costs, open scripts.txt and search for:

2121 3 1224979098644774917 1000 1224979098644774917


Decrease that number to make the upgrades cost cheaper.

Once again, the scale is not linear, but it's the same for all item types. At 100, all upgrade costs got reduced to 1/19 of the nominal value, and at 10 coupled with 10% of the default cost set in mod options, you can reach the bare minimum of 1 denar cost for every item, given you also reduce the minimum cost to 1 as shown in the next point.

3) Lastly, there is a minimum equipping time of 1 day and a minimum cost of 1000 denars. To change the minimum equipping time, find the following pieces respectively in scripts.txt (1 instance) and conversation.txt (2 instances):

2111 2 1224979098644774920 1
2111 2 72057594037927937 1

That 1 is literally the minimum equipping time expressed in days. You can't make it any smaller (0 already results in breaking the equipping routine), only increase it. Always change the above values together!

To change the minimum cost, find the following pieces respectively in scripts.txt (1 instance) and conversation.txt (2 instances):

2111 2 1224979098644774914 1000
2111 2 72057594037927936 1000

That 1000 is the minimum cost expressed in denars and you can reduce it to as low as 1 denar. Always change them together!

Tweak 3 d)

To set the starting stats and equipment of your CKO units to KO level and disable their training in return

This tweak requires a new game to take effect by default, however you can use the above linked savegame editor to edit troop stats and equipment mid-game

Upon applying this tweak, knights and sergeants of your custom knighthood order will start with stats and equipment that are of mid-high KO level, for the cost of not being trainable any longer. From the lower side, stats were chosen in retrospect to the requirements of all unlockable items, which means:

30 STR and 21 AGI
400 weapon proficiencies
skill template of Knight of the Griffon

Furthermore, your CKO will come equipped as follows, having mostly unused or rarely used items in terms of armor and horse, to be unique:

Knights:
Empire_Gold_Helmet
Golden_Plate_Armor_with_Cape
Soft_Soled_Ornate_Greaves
Black_Steel_Gauntlets
Ebony_Knight_Sword
Cavalry_Mace
Long_Dark_Knight_Lance
Engraved_Round_Shield
Black_Ironbred_Charger
Sergeants:
Flat_Helm_with_Feather
Golden_Plate_with_Bull_Surcoat
Soft_Soled_Ornate_Greaves
Asp_Gauntlets
Morningstar
Siege_Crossbow
Siege_Bolts
Silver_&_Black_Round_Shield

If you don't like the default setup presented above, then by using the previous tweak, you can set up a 1 day long and 1 denar cost upgrade for every item (the lowest safe minimum for both). Overall:

for starting stats, you need to edit troops #347 & #404, #1164 & #1165, #1166 & #1167
for starting items, you need to edit the inventories of troops #1164 & #1165, #1166 & #1167

Screenshots:

https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1032960424522095709/BD93F7BACC9E5B618FF6D5206E49931535775501/
https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1032960424522095935/C82CE375B20DDA39B488E389795ACD0401B0A532/
https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1032960424522096075/E919E6356DF73C088AB1080899B167B561F1BA9B/

Files:

troops.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open troops.txt and replace the entries of troops called trp_player_knight, trp_player_sergeant, trp_player_knight_dummy, trp_player_sergeant_dummy, trp_player_knight_save, trp_player_sergeant_save respectively with these:

trp_player_knight New_Order_Knight New_Order_Knights 0 133174272 0 0 63 0 0
  695 0 745 0 314 0 1190 0 159 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 12 15 45
 400 400 400 400 400 400 400
338 2147876864 2415919104 34423 624768 0 
  34359738369 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 50465891015 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 

trp_player_sergeant New_Order_Sergeant New_Order_Sergeants 0 133173248 0 0 63 0 0
  737 0 304 0 1184 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 9 12 39
 400 400 400 400 400 400 400
258 131072 2415919104 5751 624768 0 
  1 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 33286021831 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 

trp_player_knight_dummy New_Order_Knight New_Order_Knights 0 133207056 0 0 63 0 0
  905 0 653 0 757 0 708 0 1205 0 1245 0 1368 0 1436 0 222 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 12 15 15
 400 400 400 400 400 400 400
338 2147876864 2415919104 34423 624768 0 
  34359738369 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 50465891015 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 

trp_player_sergeant_dummy New_Order_Sergeant New_Order_Sergeants 0 133206032 0 0 63 0 0
  971 0 650 0 757 0 707 0 1304 0 1134 0 1155 0 1423 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 9 12 10
 400 400 400 400 400 400 400
258 131072 2415919104 5751 624768 0 
  1 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 33286021831 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 

trp_player_knight_save New_Order_Knight New_Order_Knights 0 133174288 0 0 63 0 0
  905 0 653 0 757 0 708 0 1205 0 1245 0 1368 0 1436 0 222 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 12 15 1
 400 400 400 400 400 400 400
338 2147876864 2415919104 34423 624768 0 
  50465891015 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_player_sergeant_save New_Order_Sergeant New_Order_Sergeants 0 133173264 0 0 63 0 0
  971 0 650 0 757 0 707 0 1304 0 1134 0 1155 0 1423 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 9 12 1
 400 400 400 400 400 400 400
1 131088 2415919104 9847 624768 0 
  33286021831 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 0 0 0 0 


2) Now open conversation.txt, decrease the number in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4151), then find and delete this line:

dlga_member_question_2:member_train_order_1 69631 198  8 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 6 3 1224979098644774913 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 541 3 1224979098644774913 289 360287970189640027 541 3 1224979098644774913 7 360287970189639680 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 2335 2 2 432345564227567679 31 2 1224979098644774912 1 I_would_like_you_to_train_the_knights_and_sergeants_of_the_{s2}.  205  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 3 e)

Purchase CKO Equipment like from any other KO - credits to BananaFruit

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for:

dlga_buy_order_armour_set:close_window 4095 1735  2 1073741855 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640027 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640084


2) Replace the 2 bold numbers with 0

3) Then find this peice:

dlga_buy_order_armour_set:buy_order_armour_set_1 4095 1735  29 3221225503 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640027 2147483679 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640084 520


4) And replace it with this:

dlga_buy_order_armour_set:buy_order_armour_set_1 4095 1735  27 520


5) Lastly, find this piece:

dlga_buy_order_armour_set:buy_order_armour_set_1 4095 1735  32 3221225503 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640027 2147483679 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640084 520


6) And replace it with this:

dlga_buy_order_armour_set:buy_order_armour_set_1 4095 1735  30 520


Tweak 3 f)

To be able to do the grandmaster quest for your CKO - credits to VonDegurechaff

We will add a new conversation option with which you'll also be able to initiate the grandmaster quest as a member (honorary grandmaster) of your custom knighthood order, without the need to turn on the cheatmenu. The added option will remain to be there even after you've started the grandmaster quest, among other KO's conversation options too. But no matter what, it will make action for your CKO only, and the worst thing it does if you click on it again is that it restarts the quest, so won't break anything. If you find this to be uncomfortable, then you can just remove the option after toggling the grandmaster quest, removing and adding conversation lines is savegame-compatible back and forth.

Files: conversation.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153), then find this line:

dlga_hall_order_sergeant_talk:buy_order_armour_set 69631 1722  0 I_wish_to_buy_your_armor_set.  1735  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


2) Add this conversation line after it, as a new line:

dlga_hall_order_guard_talk:order_quartermaster_1 69631 1718  2 540 3 360287970189639680 162 360287970189640027 2147484194 3 504403158265495619 11 6 Toggle_Grandmaster_Quest  6  9 1 2 936748722493063560 504403158265495619 506 3 504403158265495619 11 0 520 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 162 2173 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 502 3 1224979098644774913 72 6 502 3 1224979098644774913 71 300 2335 2 12 1224979098644774913 1106 2 1585267068834416388 3211208 2052 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 3 g)

To unlock Sarleon and Ravenstern Armored Warhorses for your CKO - credits to VonDegurechaff

The unlock happens when you ask for the legendary weapons of King Ulric and King Gregory respectively.

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

dlga_prisoner_chat_noble2:close_window.2 69631 1665  10 31 2 144115188075855950 1 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640205 360287970189640210 2147483678 2 72057594037927937 6 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713126 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713098 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151712866 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713077 151 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713043 2167 1 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774912 1 I_am_taking_your_weapon._Now_get_out_of_my_sight_and_run_home,_you_coward!  6  31 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 2173 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640205 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713126 1531 2 360287970189640205 288230376151713126 1530 2 360287970189640205 288230376151713111 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640206 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713098 1531 2 360287970189640206 288230376151713098 1530 2 360287970189640206 288230376151713091 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640207 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712866 1531 2 360287970189640207 288230376151712866 1530 2 360287970189640206 288230376151712864 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640208 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713077 1531 2 360287970189640208 288230376151713077 1530 2 360287970189640208 288230376151713075 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640209 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713043 1531 2 360287970189640209 288230376151713043 1530 2 360287970189640209 288230376151713091 3 0 1533 1 144115188075855892 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 -40 1 3 936748722493063445 1224979098644774912 -30 NO_VOICEOVER


2) And replace it with this:

dlga_prisoner_chat_noble2:close_window.2 69631 1665  10 31 2 144115188075855950 1 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640205 360287970189640210 2147483678 2 72057594037927937 6 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713126 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713098 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151712866 1073741975 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713077 151 2 144115188075855892 288230376151713043 2167 1 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774912 1 I_am_taking_your_weapon._Now_get_out_of_my_sight_and_run_home,_you_coward!  6  33 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 2173 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640205 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713126 1531 2 360287970189640205 288230376151713126 1530 2 360287970189640205 288230376151713111 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711971 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640206 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713098 1531 2 360287970189640206 288230376151713098 1530 2 360287970189640206 288230376151713091 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711970 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640207 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712866 1531 2 360287970189640207 288230376151712866 1530 2 360287970189640206 288230376151712864 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640208 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713077 1531 2 360287970189640208 288230376151713077 1530 2 360287970189640208 288230376151713075 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640209 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713043 1531 2 360287970189640209 288230376151713043 1530 2 360287970189640209 288230376151713091 3 0 1533 1 144115188075855892 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 -40 1 3 936748722493063445 1224979098644774912 -30 NO_VOICEOVER 


3) The two highlighted numbers above represent Sarleon and Ravenstern Armored Warhorses respectively. Make sure that those numbers are the result of this addition: 288230376151711744 + EntryNumberOfItem. The entry number can be most easily checked with Morgh's Editor.

Tweak 3 h)

To unlock any item for your CKO and make sure they appear in the pools - credits to VonDegurechaff and Dalion

By default, certain items do not appear in the equipment pools when they should, such as the 4 armets. It's because of the price conditions. The "affordable" section has a designated price range of 1-624, while the "fine" section is from 625 to 1449. The catch however is that in case of the former section, due to an oversight, the upper end of the range stops at X-1, which is 623. And apparently, the price of all 4 armets is exactly 624, thus they are not included in either category. As a fix, we will change the upper end of the range to be actually X (624) instead of X-1 (623).

Files:

triggers.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open triggers.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line by 1 (32 -> 33)

2) To the end of the file, add this trigger as a new line:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  2 37 0 71 1 36  1 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711744


The highlighted number is the "item constant" (an offset basically). Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

3) Open up the Item Editor in Morgh's Editor and search for the item you want to add to your CKO's item pool. Take the number of the entry and add it to the number above (the item constant)

4) Now load your game, and press the button "J" on the world map. The selected item will be then added to your CKO's item pool.

5) Rinse and repeat for another item. Or alternatively, you can add multiple items at the same time by modifying the above trigger a bit:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  2 37 0 71 1 36  1 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711744


6) For each further item you want to add, increase that 1 by 1. And then, add the last half of the code in bold that much times to the end, separated by 1 gap each of course. Finally, you have to add the given items' entry numbers to each of the 288230376151711744 constants.

7) So for example, if you want to add 3 items at the same time, your trigger template should look like this:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  2 37 0 71 1 36  3 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711744 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711744 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711744


And add Item_A's entry number to the 1st, Item_B's entry number to the 2nd, and Item_C's entry number to the 3rd constant.

8) For new items added to the game, you will have to extend the range of equipment allowed to appear in the item pools of your CKO (Otherwise skip this step!). For this, open scripts.txt and find this piece of code:

2106 2 1224979098644774919 10 6 3 1224979098644774921 0 288230376151713316


Increase that 288230376151713316 by the amount of items you added to the game. The resulting value should correspond to 288230376151711744 + last_item_ID + 1 (check with Morgh's Editor if you are unsure). Then load your game, and press "J" on the world map.

9) Last but not least, find the following piece under the script called prepare_dummy_and_wardrobe_for_upgrade:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774914


And replace it with this:

2147483680 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774914


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains on both sides of the replacement!

Tweak 3 i)

To change the required relation to get Calanon's CKO unlocks - credits to Димасик

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece:

dlga_noldor_merchant_unlock:merchant_ending_trade 1088 1827  2 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567643 432345564227567629 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 70


2) That 70 in the end is the required relation threshold with the Noldors for the unlock to happen. Change it to your liking!

Tweak 3 j)

To change the units that your CKO knights and sergeants upgrade from - credits to BananaFruit

File: scripts.txt

1) Search for the following lines, depending on which culture you chose. The pair of numbers highlighted will be the required troops for your knights and sergeants respectively.

Sarleon:

432345564227567623 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639779 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639774


(Sarleon Knight and Sarleon Man-at-Arms)

Ravenstern:

432345564227567624 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639798 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639788


(Ravenstern Knight and Ravenstern Man-at-Arms)

D'Shar:

432345564227567625 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639818 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639806


(D'Shar Noble Cavalry and D'Shar Warrior)

Fierdsvain:

432345564227567626 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639839 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639830


(Fierdsvain Hersir and Fierdsvain Heavy Axeman)

Empire:

432345564227567627 2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639847 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639856


(Empire Knight and Empire Armored Pikeman)

Pendor:

2133 2 72057594037927957 360287970189639877 2133 2 72057594037927958 360287970189639871


(Pendor Knight and Pendor Man-at-Arms

2) Open up the Troops Editor within Morgh's Editor, find the entry number of the unit of your choice (Pendor Black Archer is #203), then add this number to the "troop constant" which is 360287970189639680, and put the resulting number into the place of the highlighted values above (corresponding to the culture you've chosen). Here are some examples for a Pendorian CKO:

To upgrade knights from Pendor Foot Knight, change 360287970189639877 to 360287970189639878
To upgrade knights from Pendor Black Archer, change 360287970189639877 to 360287970189639883
To upgrade sergeants from Pendor Armored Bowman, change 360287970189639871 to 360287970189639881
To upgrade sergeants from Pendor Mtd. Man-at-Arms, change 360287970189639871 to 360287970189639874
To upgrade sergeants from Pendor Heavy Spearman, change 360287970189639871 to 360287970189639870

4. Honor and Renown (6)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
4 a) To disable the honor loss upon doing hostile actions to trade caravans
4 b) To disable the honor loss when refusing a ransom offer for a lord
4 c) To disable the honor loss upon doing hostile actions to a village
4 d) To change the starting honor bonus of certain character creation choices
4 e) To change how much renown you can get after winning battles
4 f) To remove the renown decay


Tweak 4 a)

To disable the honor loss upon doing hostile actions to trade caravans - credits to BananaFruit

File: conversation.txt

1) For raiding caravans during peace, search for:

1224979098644774912 0 1 2 936748722493063450 -3


Change the -3 to 0 to disable the honor loss.

2) For demanding a toll, search for:

144115188075855914 1 2 936748722493063450 -1


Change the -1 to 0 to disable the honor loss.

Tweak 4 b)

To disable the honor loss when refusing a ransom offer for a lord - credits to BananaFruit

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: menus.txt

1) Search for:

1 2 936748722493063450 -5



2) Replace that -5 with 0. In case of other mods, the honor penalty is likely different (-1 in Native) plus you have to adjust the above piece as follows in order to find it:

936748722493063450 (scripts.txt): 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_honor (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 4 c)

To disable the honor loss upon doing hostile actions to a village - credits to BananaFruit

File: menus.txt

1) For razing a village, search for this piece:

1441151880758558915 1 2 936748722493063450 -1


Change the -1 to 0 to disable the honor loss

2) For stealing cows, search for this piece:

0 1 2 936748722493063450 -3 3 0 1 2


Change the -3 to 0 to disable the honor loss

3) For stealing supplies, search for this piece:

0 1 2 936748722493063450 -3 3 0 4 0


Change the -3 to 0 to disable the honor loss

Tweak 4 d)

To change the starting honor bonus of certain character creation choices - credits to Alex Toews

File: menus.txt

1) Stage 1, "a minor noble":

100 1 2 936748722493063450 1


2) Stage 4, "a letter that changed your life forever":

if you chose "a minor noble" in Stage 1:
52 1 2 936748722493063450 2

if you chose "a merchant ship captain" in Stage 1:
58 1 2 936748722493063450 2

if you chose "a former knight" in Stage 1 (10+3=13):
16 1 2 936748722493063450 10
30 1 2 936748722493063450 3

if you chose "a retired adventurer" in Stage 1:
432345564227567650 10 1 2 936748722493063450 3

if you chose "a wandering nomad clan leader" in Stage 1:
432345564227567642 10 1 2 936748722493063450 3

if you chose "a respectable physician" in Stage 1:
360287970189639680 10 1 2 936748722493063450 3


3) The values in red above are the actual honor gains. Change them to your liking!

Tweak 4 e)

To change how much renown you can get after winning battles - credits to Alex Toews and Fandom User

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

Before changing anything, note that the actual maximum possible renown gained per fight will be 10% higher than the set amount (which is 50 by default), and also that under certain conditions the earned renown can go even higher. Last but not least, you will gain progressively less renown as you will have more as a base: for every 200 renown you currently have (rounded down), the amount of renown you get for winning is reduced by 1. You can change both aspects using this tweak.

File: scripts.txt

1) To change the raw amount you can get, find these 3 pieces of code under the script called calculate_renown_value:

100 2108 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 2107 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 2108 2 1224979098644774916 100

2108 2 144115188075856231 5

2500 2130 1


The 100 is a multiplier for the enemy's strength. Increasing it will give you slightly more renown after battles. The 100 is a divisor for your side's strength (friendly side). Decreasing it will give you slightly more renown after battles. The 5 is the final divisor for the enemy/friendly strength ratio, therefore changing this has a bigger effect overall. The current value means that only 1/5 of the above enemy/friendly strength ratio will be accounted for. Decreasing this number will give you much more renown. The 2500 is the set renown cap, which is 50 by default. The value entered however has to be the square of the desired amount (i.e. 2500 is the square of 50). Only the 2nd piece cannot be found in other mods. To receive as much renown as if your party size was equal to the enemy's, replace the highlighted 100, 100 and 1224979098644774915 with 1. Watch for the gaps!

2) To remove the diminishing returns of renown gaining, find this piece under the script called change_troop_renown:

2123 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 200 2106 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915


And change that 200 to 99999

Tweak 4 f)

To remove the renown decay - credits to BananaFruit

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

Your current renown is divided by 200 (ie, 0.5%), then the result is subtracted from your current renown. This happens once in 2 weeks (every 336 hours).

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Search for:

2123 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 200


2) That 200 is the mentioned divisor. To eliminate the renown decay, simply increase that 200 to a much higher number, such as 99999.

5. Relations (11)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
5 a) To remove the faction relation caps
5 b) To make Inquisition rightfully hostile towards Singalians and Outlaws too
5 c) To change the relation you get/lose upon helping/fighting a faction
5 d) To adjust the price of buying peace
5 e) To remove or change the relation hit towards claimants when assigning fiefs to someone else during the questline
5 f) To change the relation you get/lose with your vassals upon distributing fiefs
5 g) To remove the relation hit with fiefless and defeated vassals
5 h) To change the relation penalty of rejecting an invitation for vassalage or disable the feature as a whole
5 i) To change how often and how much village relation points Schools give after being built
5 j) To change the values of the gift system to repair relations with enemy lords, available from ladies
5 k) To modify the relation points you get/lose for completing/failing various quests and upon some lord interactions


Tweak 5 a)

To remove the faction relation caps - credits to BananaFruit and Dalion

Some factions will not allow you to go over a fixed amount of relation points. These caps are the following:

Rogue Knights: 10
Heretics: -15
Jatu: 2
Snake Cult: -5
Adventurer Companies: 10
Mystmountain Tribes: 10
D'Shar Raiders: 10
Singalians: 10

Every 168 hours, this is checked, and if any value is over the one predetermined, it will be lowered to the maximum that was preset. However, as this only gets checked every 168 hours, it is in fact possible to befriend the Snake Cult or the Heretics even without tweaking, albeit temporarily.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find and observe this piece of trigger:

168.000000  214 4 0 1 1 936748722493063594 1 2 936748722493063600 0 1 1 936748722493063605 1 1 936748722493063607 1 1 936748722493063799 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567651 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 10 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567651 10 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567651 10 3 0 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567657 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 -15 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567657 -15 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567657 -15 3 0 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567653 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 2 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567653 2 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567653 2 3 0 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567658 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 -5 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567658 -5 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567658 -5 3 0 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567650 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 10 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567650 10 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567650 10 3 0 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567655 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 10 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567655 10 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567655 10 3 0 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567642 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 10 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567642 10 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567642 10 3 0 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 432345564227567656 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 10 1270 3 432345564227567629 432345564227567656 10 1270 3 432345564227567630 432345564227567656 10 3 0 3 0 2133 2 144115188075857279 1 


Search for the values listed above. There are 3 instances of these numbers for each faction. Change them to whatever you want.

2) Alternatively, you can disable the relation reset once reaching the relation caps, instead of changing the caps themselves. For that, reduce the brown number at the start by 49 (214 -> 165) and remove the whole bolded part. Watch for the gap, so that exactly 1 remains between the remaining fragments.

Tweak 5 b)

To make Inquisition rightfully hostile towards Singalians and Outlaws too

This tweak requires a new game to take effect by default, however you can use the above linked savegame editor to edit faction relations mid-game

The Inquisition by default is hostile towards the D'Shar and Heretics, but not towards the Singalians and Outlaws. Whereas Singalians share a culture resemblence with the D'Shar Principalities and Heretic High Priests can be found in outlaw bandit lairs, so the two are connected as well. This tweaks aims at correcting these "issues".

File: factions.txt

1) Open the Faction Editor of Morgh's Editor and find the entry of Inquisition (#43). Set the relation towards Outlaws (fac_outlaws, #2) to -0.1, and towards Singalians (fac_singalians, #40) to -0.2.

2) Then adjust the relations vica-versa as well. For that, find the entry of Outlaws (#2) and set the relation towards Inquisition (fac_inquisition, #43) to -0.1. Lastly, find the entry of Singalians (#40) and set the relation towards the Inquisition (fac_inquisition, #43) to -0.2.

Tweak 5 c)

To change the relation you get/lose upon helping/fighting a faction - credits to BananaFruit

File: menus.txt

1) For joining battles as a vassal, mercenary or freelancer, search for:

2110 2 1224979098644774939 4


4 is the maximum change in relation with the corresponding factions after a battle. Increase or decrease it to your liking, but note that this will affect relation gains and losses at the same time.

2) While being a king/queen, on top of the previous relation changes after a battle, you immediately get a 10 relation penalty with the faction you sided against. To change that, search for:

1 3 936748722493063445 1224979098644774912 -10


You will find 2 instances of this code in the file. One is for joining on the attacker's side, the other is for joining on the defender's side. Change both -10 to the value of your desire.

Tweak 5 d)

To adjust the price of buying peace - credits to frantic

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

72057594037927952 1224979098644774915 50


2) That 50 is the cost multiplier (10 in Native, and could be different in other mods). Reducing it to 5 (1/10 of 50) will cut the costs to 1/10 as well. 0 will make it free.

Tweak 5 e)

To remove or change the relation hit towards claimants when assigning fiefs to someone else during the questline - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

As long as claimants remain in your party (i.e. the questline for them is active) and you decide to award a fief to someone else, then you'll get -1 relation with the claimant after each time you do so. This tweak aims at removing that penalty

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

2107 2 1224979098644774919 -1


2) That -1 in the end is the relation penalty. Change it to 0 to remove the penalty. Or change it to your liking.

Tweak 5 f)

To change the relation you get/lose with your vassals upon distributing fiefs - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) Find these 2 pieces of code under the script give_center_to_lord:

10 2105 2 144115188075857001 10 6 3

-5 3 4 0 1073742364 3


2) The 10 is the relation you get with the vassal who received the fief. The -5 and 3-1 is the minimum and maximum (the latter will be -1 lower compared to the value set) relation gain/loss with other lords. The value chosen within this range depends on the other lords' personalities (good-natured and updstanding will most often be on the high end, while bad-tempered and sadistic lords will be on the low end), and their relation with the lord who received the fief (if they hate each other it will be on the lower end, if they like each other it will be on the higher end).

3) In case of other mods, you have to adjust the first piece as follows in order to find it:

144115188075857001 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of total_promotion_changes in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

total_promotion_changes

Tweak 5 g)

To remove the relation hit with fiefless and defeated vassals - credits to Dalion

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

Be careful, changing these relation penalties will apply to the relation between kings and their own vassals too!

By default, relations fall by 1 point each time a vassal with a cunning, pitiless, sadistic or bad-tempered personality gets defeated in battle by another party (any). You also lose 2 relation points repeatedly with the same kind of vassal personalities, and 1 relation point with Martial personalities as long as they don't have a fief.

Files:

scripts.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) For the relation hit when getting defeated, open scripts.txt and find this piece of code:

1224979098644774922 1224979098644774927 -1 2105 2


2) For the relation hit from not owning a fief, open simple_triggers.txt and find this piece of code:

1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 -2 2105 2
1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 -1 2105 2


The latter piece likely cannot be found in other mods.

3) The highlighted numbers in red are the relation penalties. Change them to your liking!

Tweak 5 h)

To change the relation penalty of rejecting an invitation for vassalage or disable the feature as a whole - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

menus.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) To change the relation penalty, open menus.txt and find these 2 lines:

mno_faction_reject  0  Decline_the_invitation.  6 1 3 936748722493063443 144115188075855974 -3 1 3 936748722493063445 144115188075855973 -10

mno_faction_reject  0  Decline_the_invitation.  5 1 3 936748722493063443 144115188075855974 -3


The -3 is the relation change with the king, and the -10 is the relation change with the king's faction. Change them to your liking or replace them both with 0 to remove these penalties. As for other mods, you can find the same values of -3 and -10 respectively after the Decline_the_invitation. sentence.

2) To disable the vassalage invitation feature, open simple_triggers.txt, and find the trigger starting with 32.000000. Or to be more precise in case of PoP:

32.000000  52 31 2 144115188075856294 0 2147483680 2 144115188075855973 0 31 2 144115188075856290 0 4 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567631 432345564227567636 2133 2 1224979098644774913 999999 6 3 1224979098644774914 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 2204 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 31 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 2281 3 1224979098644774916 648518346341351424 1224979098644774914 2110 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 3 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 30 2190 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 522 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 11 1 2 936748722493063441 1224979098644774918 2133 2 1224979098644774919 72057594037927936 1 2 936748722493063402 360287970189639680 2133 2 1224979098644774920 72057594037927936 31 2 144115188075856167 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 0 4 0 30 2 648518346341351424 0 2157 2 1224979098644774921 648518346341351424 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774920 0 520 3 1224979098644774922 360287970189639680 7 30 2 1224979098644774922 160 30 2 1224979098644774917 0 30 2 1224979098644774919 0 30 2 1224979098644774921 45 2136 3 1224979098644774923 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774923 50 1 2 936748722493063627 1224979098644774912 2133 2 144115188075855980 72057594037927936 30 2 144115188075855980 0 2133 2 144115188075855973 1224979098644774912 2060 1 864691128455135454 5 0 32 2 1224979098644774920 0 2147483679 2 144115188075857037 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774917 -40 30 2 1224979098644774919 -20 30 2 1224979098644774921 30 2136 3 1224979098644774923 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774923 20 2133 2 144115188075855973 1224979098644774912 2133 2 144115188075855980 -1 2060 1 864691128455135453 3 0 3 0


Replace it with this:

0.000000  0


Tweak 5 i)

To change how often and how much village relation points Schools give after being built - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Search for this piece of code:

26 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1


2) The 1 is the amount of relation points you get with the given village, and the 168.000000 at the beginning of the trigger (720.000000 in Native) is the frequency expressed in hours (weekly in PoP, monthly in Native). Change these values to your liking.

Tweak 5 j)

To change the values of the gift system to repair relations with enemy lords, available from ladies - credits to Lord Kinlar

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

File: conversation.txt

1) For changing the requirement to buy gifts, find this piece of code in the line called dlga_lady_restore_relation_2:lady_restore_relation_2b:

1224979098644774912 2147483678 2 72057594037927936 0


That 0 is the relation cap below which buying gifts (to repair relations) is allowed. Change it to 100 to always allow you to increase relations this way.

2) For changing the amount of relation increases that each of the 3 gift provides (from bottom to top), look for these pieces:

I_think_a_gift_of_{reg10}_denars_will_do.  960  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 1

Maybe_I_can_afford_{reg11}_denars.  960  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 2

In_that_case,_I_am_ready_to_spend_{reg12}_denars.  960  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 3


And change the red number in the end of each line to your liking (e.g. to 2, 4 and 6 respectively). In case of other mods, search for the same 3 texts from each line, and you'll likely find the respective values in the same spot.

3) For changing the price of each gift, find this piece:

dlga_lady_restore_relation_3:lady_restore_relation_4 4095 958  8 2322 2 10 144115188075856044 2133 2 144115188075856045 1000 2133 2 144115188075856046 2000 2133 2 144115188075856047 3000


Those numbers in blue are the prices of the 3 gifts respectively (from bottom to top). Change them to your liking as well. In case of other mods, search for the dlga_lady_restore_relation_3:lady_restore_relation_4 conversation line, and you'll likely find the respective values in the same spot.

Tweak 5 k)

To modify the relation points you get/lose for completing/failing various quests and upon some lord interactions - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for multiple instances of the following piece of code within the file. The numbers right after this are the relation points you get or lose:

1 3 936748722493063444 144115188075856143


In case of other mods, you have to adjust the piece as follows in order to find all the instances of it. Keep in mind that not all quests will be present:

936748722493063444 (scripts.txt): 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_relation_with_center (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856143 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

2) The quests/interactions responding to those relation points are the following, indicated by the dlga_... conversation lines regarding where they are located at (between parentheses):

Town relations:

1. Knock out or apologize to the drunken unit in the tavern: 1 (dlga_start:player_duel_response)
2. Deliver wine - completion: 1 (dlga_tavernkeeper_deliver_wine:tavernkeeper_pretalk)
3. Buy drinks in tavern: 1 (dlga_tavernkeeper_buy_drinks_end:tavernkeeper_pretalk)
4. Persuade lords to make peace - accept money: 5 (dlga_lord_persuade_lords_to_make_peace_pay:close_window)
5. Persuade lords to make peace - decline money: 8 (dlga_lord_persuade_lords_to_make_peace_no_pay)
6. Deal with night bandits completion: 1 (dlga_mayor_begin:lord_deal_with_night_bandits_completed)
7. Deal with looters - completion: 5 (dlga_mayor_looters_quest_destroyed_2:close_window)
8. Deliver goods from looters - no longer used, ignore!: 3 (dlga_mayor_looters_quest_goods_2:close_window)
9. Move cattle herd - completion: 3 (dlga_mayor_begin:close_window)
9. Rescue kidnapped girl - completion: 2 (dlga_mayor_begin:close_window.1)
10. Track down bandits: 2 (dlga_mayor_begin:mayor_friendly_pretalk)
11. Deal with troublesome bandits - completion: 2 (dlga_mayor_begin:mayor_friendly_pretalk.1)

Village relations:

12. Deliver cattle to village - completion: 5 (dlga_start:village_elder_deliver_cattle_thank)
13. Rescue the elder's daughter: 7 (dlga_start:village_elder_deliver_cattle_thank.1)
14. Escort villagers to town: 4 (dlga_start:village_elder_deliver_cattle_thank.2)
15. Deliver grain to village - completion: 5 (dlga_village_elder_deliver_grain_thank:village_elder_deliver_grain_thank_2)
16. Accept "Deliver grain to village" quest: 5 (dlga_village_elder_deliver_grain_mission_accept:close_window)
17. Accept "Train peasants" quest: 3 (dlga_village_elder_train_peasants_against_bandits_mission_accept:close_window)
18. Accept "Deliver cattle" quest: 3 (dlga_village_elder_deliver_cattle_mission_accept:close_window)
19. Accept "Rescue the elder's daughter" quest: 2 (dlga_village_elder_rescue_daughter_mission_accept:close_window)
20. Accept "Escort villagers to town" quest: 1 (dlga_village_elder_escort_peasants_mission_accept:close_window)

3) And here is the other set of quests/interactions that you can find by searching for multiple instances of the following piece of code. The numbers right after this are once again the relation points you get or lose:

1 3 936748722493063443 144115188075855892


Once again, in case of other mods, you have to adjust the piece as follows in order to find all the instances of it. Keep in mind that not all quests will be present:

936748722493063443 (scripts.txt): 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_relation_with_troop (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

4) The quests/interactions responding for those relation points are the following (in the same order):

21. 'Rescue prisoner lord' quest completion (for a lady): 8 (dlga_start:rescue_prisoner_succeed_2)
22. Capture a rescued lord (when at war): -30 (dlga_freed_lord_answer:freed_lord_answer_1)
23. Rescue friendly lord from being prisoner: 5 (dlga_freed_lord_answer:freed_lord_answer_2)
24. Take enemy lord prisoner after battle: -5 (dlga_defeat_lord_answer:defeat_lord_answer_1)
25. Allow enemy lord to go free after battle: 2 (dlga_defeat_lord_answer:defeat_lord_answer_2)
26. Ignore! (relation gain or loss set by previous actions, like releasing him the last time you met, or raiding his village, etc) (dlga_party_encounter_lord_hostile_attacker:party_encounter_lord_hostile_attacker)
27. Ask enemy lord to let go without battle: -7 (dlga_party_encounter_offer_dont_fight:close_window)
28. Join a claimant: 50 (dlga_lord_give_conclude_2:close_window)
29. Quarrel between two lords - renouncing friendship with the other lord: 5 (-10 to the other lord) (dlga_lord_event_choose_friend:lord_event_choose_friend_renounce)
30. Quarrel between two lords - defending friendship with the other lord: -10 (5 to the other lord) (dlga_lord_event_choose_friend:lord_event_choose_friend_defend)
31. Quarrel between two lords - saying that you don't want to be involved in their quarrel: -2 (-3 to the other lord) (dlga_lord_event_choose_friend:lord_event_choose_friend_neutral)
32. Ignore! (relation gain or loss set by previous actions, like releasing him the last time you met, or raiding his village, etc) (dlga_lord_start:lord_start)
33. Ghost lady - accuse lord of murder: -20 (dlga_ghostlord_accuse:close_window)
34. Ghost lady - accuse scribe of murder: 10 (dlga_ghostlord_end:close_window)
35. Ghost lady - accuse lord's rival of murder: -10 (dlga_ghostenemy_accuse:close_window)
36: Ghost lady - accused lord of murder, then change mind to accuse the scribe instead: 5 (dlga_ghostenemy_end:close_window)
37: Incriminate commander - success: 5 (dlga_lord_start:lord_generic_mission_completed.1)
38: Incriminate commander - failure: -5 (dlga_lord_start:close_window)
39: Meet spy in enemy town - success: 3 (dlga_quest_meet_spy_in_enemy_town_completed_2:lord_pretalk)
40. Start a war by raiding caravans - success: 10 (dlga_lord_start:lord_pretalk)
41. Collect debt from another lord - success: 2 (dlga_lord_collect_debt_pay:lord_pretalk)
42. Kill the merchant: 4 (dlga_lord_start:close_window.1)
43. Let the merchant go: 2 (dlga_lord_kill_local_merchant_let_go_2:lord_pretalk)
44. Follow spy - capture and bring back both the spy and the handler: 4 (dlga_lord_start:lord_follow_spy_completed)
45. Follow spy - capture and bring back only the spy: -1 (dlga_lord_start:lord_follow_spy_half_completed)
46. Follow spy - capture and bring back only the handler: 1 (dlga_lord_start:lord_follow_spy_half_completed.1)
47. Follow spy - fail to capture either: -2 (dlga_lord_start:lord_follow_spy_failed)
48. Bring back runaway serfs: 2 (dlga_lord_start:lord_generic_mission_completed.2)
49. Fail to bring back runaway serfs: -1 (dlga_lord_bring_back_runaway_serfs_failed_1a:lord_pretalk)
50. Refuse to bring back runaway serfs: -10 (dlga_lord_bring_back_runaway_serfs_failed_1b:close_window)
51. Kill bandits in village for a lord: 3 (dlga_lord_start:lord_deal_with_bandits_completed)
52. Failing to kill bandits in village for a lord: -5 (dlga_lord_start:lord_pretalk.1)
53. Bring cattle during campaign - completion: 2 (dlga_lord_start:lord_deliver_cattle_to_army_thank)
54. Scout during campaign - completion : 1 (dlga_lord_start:lord_scout_waypoints_thank)
55. Accept quest to bring cattle during campaign: 1 (dlga_lord_mission_told_deliver_cattle_to_army_accepted:close_window)
56. Report to army for campaign after peace kicks in: 1 (dlga_lord_start:lord_pretalk.2)
57. Report to army for campaign: 1 (dlga_lord_report_to_army_completed:close_window)
58. Accept quest to scout during campaign: 1 (dlga_lord_mission_told_scout_waypoints_accepted:close_window)
59. Lend companion to lord - complete: 3 (dlga_lord_lend_companion_end:lord_pretalk.1)
60. Challenge lord to a duel (for a lady): -15 (dlga_lord_challenge_duel:close_window)
61. Deliver message to a friendly lord: 1 (dlga_lord_message_delivered:lord_pretalk)
62. Deliver message to an enemy lord: 1 (dlga_lord_message_delivered_enemy:close_window)
63. Ask king to accept you as a vassal again: 3 (dlga_lord_ask_pardon_after_renounce_peace:lord_pretalk)
64. Ask king to accept you as a vassal again then reject offer: -5 (dlga_lord_ask_pardon_terms_rejected:close_window)
65. Tell a lord to surrender or die: -1 (dlga_party_encounter_lord_hostile_ultimatum_surrender:close_window)
66. Cancel the attack of a lord after threatening him: -1 (dlga_lord_attack_verify_cancel:close_window)
67. Cancel the attack of a friendly lord after threatening him: -5 (dlga_lord_ultimatum_surrender:lord_attack_verify_b)
68. Tell a lord to surrender or die when at peace: -30 (dlga_lord_attack_verify_commit:close_window)
69. 'Capture a lord' quest - success: 4 (dlga_capture_enemy_hero_thank:capture_enemy_hero_thank_2)
70. Train troops for lord and hand them over: 3 (dlga_lord_active_mission_2:lord_raise_troops_thank)
71. Collect taxes for lord - success: 2 (dlga_lord_collect_taxes_success:lord_pretalk)
72. Collect taxes for lord - failure: -1 (dlga_lord_collect_taxes_fail:lord_pretalk)
73. Hunt down fugitive - success and accept reward: 1 (dlga_lord_hunt_down_fugitive_reward_accept:lord_pretalk)
74. Hunt down fugitive - success and reject reward: 1 (dlga_lord_hunt_down_fugitive_reward_reject:lord_pretalk)
75. Hunt down fugitive - failure: -1 (dlga_lord_hunt_down_fugitive_fail:lord_pretalk)
76. Cheat - tell a lord to "Like me": 20 (dlga_lord_suggest_action:lord_pretalk)
77. Rudely reject quest to deliver letter: -4 (dlga_lord_mission_deliver_message_rejected_rudely_3:close_window)
78. Accept quest from lord to deal with bandits: 1 (dlga_lord_mission_deal_with_bandits_accepted:close_window)
79. Accept quest to train troops: 1 (dlga_lord_mission_raise_troops_accepted:close_window)
80. Accept quest to collect taxes: 1 (dlga_lord_mission_collect_taxes_accepted:close_window)
81. Accept quest to hunt down fugitive: 1 (dlga_lord_mission_hunt_down_fugitive_accepted:close_window)
82. Accept quest to meet spy in enemy town: 1 (dlga_quest_meet_spy_in_enemy_town_accepted:quest_meet_spy_in_enemy_town_accepted_response)
83. Accept quest to follow and capture spy: 1 (dlga_lord_tell_mission_follow_spy_accepted:close_window)
84. Accept quest to capture enemy lord: 1 (dlga_lord_tell_mission_capture_enemy_hero_accepted:close_window)
85. Accept quest to lend a companion: 1 (dlga_lord_tell_mission_lend_companion_accepted:close_window)
86. Accept quest to collect debt from another lord: 1 (dlga_lord_tell_mission_collect_debt_accepted:close_window)
87. Reject quest to incriminate commander: -5 (dlga_lord_tell_mission_incriminate_commander_rejected:lord_pretalk)
88. Accept quest to incriminate commander: 2 (dlga_lord_tell_mission_incriminate_commander_fin:lord_pretalk)
89. Reject quest (generic): -1 (dlga_lord_mission_rejected:close_window)
90. Allow enemy lord to go free after battle (generic): 2 (dlga_lord_talk:defeat_lord_answer_2)
91. Escort lady - success: 2 (dlga_start:lady_escort_lady_succeeded)
92. Duel for lady - success: 10 (dlga_lady_qst_duel_for_lady_succeeded_2:lady_pretalk)
93. Duel for lady - failure: 6 (dlga_lady_qst_duel_for_lady_failed_2:lady_pretalk)
94. Answer for a call to visit a lady: 1 (dlga_start:lady_start.2)
95. Rescue prisoner lord for a lady (generic) - complete: 8 (dlga_start:lady_generic_mission_succeeded)
96. Rescue prisoner lord for a lady - complete: 8 (dlga_start:rescue_prisoner_succeed_1)
97. Ghost lady - accuse lover of murder: -10 (dlga_ghostlover_accuse:close_window)
98: Ghost lady - accused lover of murder, then change mind to accuse the scribe instead: 5 (dlga_ghostlover_end:close_window)
99. Accept quest to duel for lady: 3 (dlga_lady_quest_duel_for_lady_3_accepted:close_window)
100. Reject quest to duel for lady: -1 (dlga_lady_quest_duel_for_lady_3_rejected:close_window)
101. Reject quest from lady: -1 (dlga_lady_mission_rejected:close_window)
102. Ignore! (convince lord to do something by relationship (for quests), negative based on other script) (dlga_convince_friendship_go_on:convince_accept)
103. Release prisoner lord from your party: 2 (dlga_prisoner_chat_noble2:defeat_lord_answer_2)

5) Change these values to your liking (can be negative, positive and 0 as well)

6. Morale (2)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
6 a) To change the morale penalty when you run out of food
6 b) To change the base morale of your party


Tweak 6 a)

To change the morale penalty when you run out of food - credits to VonDegurechaff

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Search for this piece of code:

1 2 936748722493063451 -3 2133 2


2) Change that -3 to something else (e.g. 0 to eliminate the morale penalty). This tweak can be found within the same trigger as the previous one, so in case you don't want to disable the penalty completely, then you can also change the frequency for the morale penalty by changing the 14.000000 (the frequency in hours) at the beginning of the line. In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above piece as follows in order to find it:

936748722493063451 (scripts.txt): 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_party_morale (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 6 b)

To change the base morale of your party - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the following 3 pieces of code in the body of the script called get_player_party_morale_values -1:

1507 1 1224979098644774915 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1 5 0

1224979098644774917 18 5 0 2122 3

1224979098644774917 15 3 0


2) The 1 is the morale penalty you get for each 'hero' unit in your party. Then you get 18 bonus morale for each point of Leadership when you are king/queen, and 15 for each point of Leadership when you are not a king/queen. In Native, the same values are 15 and 12 respectively.

3) Change these values to your liking. You may also eliminate the morale penalty if you change that 1 to 0.

7. Tournaments and Arenas (10)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
7 a) To change the rewards of winning a Noldor Tournament
7 b) To add a notification about Noldor Tournaments being held at Elacrai
7 c) To change the amount of Noldor tournament wins required to get the Msytical Rune Plate
7 d) To change the frequency and the way how tournaments are held
7 e) To change the amount of participants and rounds during tournaments
7 f) To make tournament bets be based on your renown rating
7 g) To change the amount of renown, relation, denars and experience you get after winning a tournament
7 h) To earn renown upon winning arena fights
7 i) To change the monetary reward for winning an arena fight
7 j) To be able to choose your starting weapon in arena fights


Tweak 7 a)

To change the rewards of winning a Noldor Tournament - credits to BananaFruit and Димасик

File: menus.txt

1) Your prize for winning the next Noldor Tournament gets set once you've won the given one, no matter how much time passes between the two. To remove the prerolled prizes, find this piece of code:

1 2 936748722493063906 2


Cut it from its place and put it right after this piece of code:

72057594037927945 3 0


Make sure that the relocated piece is separated by exactly 1 space from the left and right, and that at the place of the deletion there is only 1 gap.

2) To make the prize always be a Qualis Gem, search for this piece:

2 144115188075857282 20


And change that 20 to 100

3) And lastly, to revamp the possible rewards completely, replace the whole entry of the menu starting by menu_town_tournament_won 4608 with this:

menu_town_tournament_won 4608 You_have_won_the_tournament_of_{s3}!_You_are_filled_with_pride_as_the_crowd_cheers_your_name._In_addition_to_honor,_fame_and_glory,_you_earn_a_prize_of_{reg9}_denars._{s8} none 126 2031 1 1441151880758558807 2330 2 3 144115188075856143 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 20 1 3 936748722493063444 144115188075856143 3 2105 2 144115188075856272 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 50 2105 2 1224979098644774912 10 501 3 144115188075856143 50 1224979098644774912 3 0 2319 1 8 2133 2 72057594037927945 2000 1062 2 250 360287970189639680 4 0 200 1 504403158265495617 546 3 504403158265495617 1 144115188075856143 526 3 1224979098644774913 504403158265495617 6 2173 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2335 2 9 1224979098644774914 2320 2 8 1585267068834416690 5 0 1528 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927945 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856143 648518346341351600 2105 2 144115188075857292 1 2133 2 1224979098644774915 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774917 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 0 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 2133 2 1224979098644774920 0 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857282 50 2133 2 1224979098644774915 288230376151711870 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857282 60 2133 2 1224979098644774915 288230376151711875 2325 2 21 1224979098644774915 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774918 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857282 70 2133 2 1224979098644774915 288230376151712428 2133 2 1224979098644774918 29 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857282 80 2133 2 1224979098644774915 288230376151713090 2133 2 1224979098644774918 17 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857282 90 2133 2 1224979098644774915 288230376151712865 2133 2 1224979098644774918 17 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857282 96 2133 2 1224979098644774915 288230376151711977 2133 2 1224979098644774918 36 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857282 100 2133 2 1224979098644774915 288230376151711976 2133 2 1224979098644774918 36 3 0 2325 2 21 1224979098644774915 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774918 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 -1 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774919 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 -1 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774920 3 0 3 0 2320 2 8 1585267068834416693 1 2 936748722493063906 2 5 0 2136 3 1224979098644774924 0 100 3221225672 1 504403158265495617 2147484194 3 504403158265495617 1 144115188075856143 2147483678 2 1224979098644774924 10 2136 3 1224979098644774925 1 80 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 15 2136 3 1224979098644774926 288230376151712149 288230376151712190 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 30 2136 3 1224979098644774926 288230376151712257 288230376151712263 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 45 2136 3 1224979098644774926 288230376151712278 288230376151712292 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 60 2136 3 1224979098644774926 288230376151712293 288230376151712311 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774925 75 2136 3 1224979098644774926 288230376151712601 288230376151712647 5 0 2136 3 1224979098644774926 288230376151712670 288230376151712749 3 0 1530 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774926 2325 2 21 1224979098644774926 2320 2 8 1585267068834416694 3 0 2120 3 1224979098644774927 144115188075856255 144115188075856256 4 0 32 2 144115188075856256 0 2133 2 72057594037927944 1224979098644774927 2320 2 8 1585267068834416695 3 0 4 0 3221225503 2 144115188075856294 144115188075856957 2147484208 3 360287970189639680 7 70 2147484208 3 360287970189639680 7 145 542 3 144115188075856957 4 6 542 3 144115188075856957 5 144115188075856280 2320 2 8 216172782113788034 3 0 1528 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774927 2133 2 1224979098644774928 0 2123 3 1224979098644774928 144115188075856256 5 521 3 1224979098644774929 144115188075856143 51 2106 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774928 2111 2 1224979098644774929 250 501 3 144115188075856143 51 1224979098644774929 1 1 936748722493063679 372 1 33 1


The rewards are the following:

50% chance (x < 50): Qualis Gem (288230376151711870)
10% chance (x < 60): 2x Large Pouch of Diamonds (288230376151711875)
10% chance (x < 70): Lordly Noldor Rune Armor (288230376151712428)
10% chance (x < 80): Masterwork Noldor Warsword (288230376151713090)
10% chance (x < 90): Masterwork Noldor Composite Bow (288230376151712865)
6% chance (x < 96): Champion Noldor Spirit Horse (288230376151711977)
4% chance (x < 100): Champion Noldor Goldleaf Warhorse (288230376151711976)

Change these items to something else if you wish, by making sure that the respective numbers will be the result of this addition: 288230376151711744 + EntryNumberOfItem. The entry number can be most easily checked with Morgh's Editor. Also, keep in mind that the accompanying modifiers won't change, they will stay the same regardless of the item

1st slot: no modifier, single item
2nd slot: no modifier, double item
3rd slot: lordly (works only on armor piece)
4th & 5th slot: masterwork (worky only on weapons)
6th & 7th slot: champion (works only on horses)

Tweak 7 b)

To add a notification about Noldor Tournaments being held at Elacrai - credits to BananaFruit

Have you ever missed a Noldor Tournament or two because you didn't pay close attention to the current date? Who didn't? Well, you don't have to worry about this anymore, as the following tweak displays a message when a Noldor Tournament begins (assuming the "Befriend the Noldor" quest is completed and Noldor relation is >= 30)

Files:

strings.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) Open strings.txt and increase the number in the second line by 1 (5056 -> 5057)

2) Add the following line to the end of the file:

str_noldor_tournament_started The_Noldor_tournament_has_begun!


Look at the serial number of this line and keep it in mind. Also, make sure that there is still an empty line at the very end of the file!

3) Next, open simple_triggers.txt and find this piece:

648518346341351600 156 1


4) Replace it with this:

648518346341351600 156 1 546 3 504403158265495615 11 3 2190 3 1224979098644774932 432345564227567643 432345564227567629 30 2 1224979098644774932 30 600 1 1152921504606847260 1106 2 216172782113788864 5308240


Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap/space to the left and to the right of the replacement!

5) In case you added other entries to strings.txt due to different tweaks, then check if the highlighted 216172782113788864 corresponds to the following formula: 216172782113783805 + № of str_noldor_tournament_started in strings.txt (from point 2), line number in Notepad++). Adjust it if needed! Otherwise skip this step.

6) Increase the second number in this line (the number after 24.000000, should be 130 if nothing has been changed previously) by 5 (130 -> 135)

Tweak 7 c)

To change the amount of Noldor tournament wins required to get the Mystical Rune Plate - credits to Fandom User

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

dlga_start:noldor_give_armor_1 1087 0  4 30 2 144115188075857292 10 2190


2) That 10 is the amount of wins required. Change it to your liking.

Tweak 7 d)

To change the frequency and the way how tournaments are held - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

There are 3 values that you can change regarding this:

The threshold for adding new tournaments: by default, the game will start adding new tournaments when there are less than 3 tournaments currently active.
The chance for adding a new tournament to a random town: by default, this chance is 30%. Adding new tournaments is repeated every 24 hours until the tournament threshold has been reached. If the randomly selected town already has a tournament, then the remaining days for the tournament will be reset.
The minimum-maximum number of days tournaments will be held: by default, tournaments last between 12 and 15-1 days. Once you visit a town with a tournament, the remaining tournament days are automatically set to 1 (even if you don't enter the tournament). So once you visit a town that's hosting a tournament, you either have to enter right away or lose the chance.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

3 2136 3 1224979098644774921 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774921 30 2136 3 1224979098644774926 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 2136 3 1224979098644774927 12 15


For other mods, find a trigger starting with 24.000000, having a piece of code with a similar pattern as the highlighted values. For instance, the equivalent of the above piece in Native is:

3 2136 3 1224979098644774919 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774919 30 2136 3 1224979098644774924 648518346341351445 648518346341351467 2136 3 1224979098644774925 12 15


2) And change these values to your liking, based on the above.

Tweak 7 e)

To change the amount of participants and rounds during tournaments - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too!

Currently, the total number of participants is 64 in tournaments, and half of them get eliminated after each round you win. Thus you will have 6 rounds (log264 = 6) overall. Also, it is recommended that the total number of participants is the power of the factor set (2 by default, at which participants get removed per round). You may still get odd numbers this way though, which will be rounded up or down according to the laws of mathematics, as shown in the example at the end.

A default setting of 64 participants in total with a factor of 2 means that the following amount of participants are allowed in different combinations possible.

tier 1: 32 participants at max (4 groups of 8 maximum, which is a hard cap)
tier 2: 32 participants at max (4 groups of 8 maximum, the other half got removed by this time)
tier 3: 16 participants at max (4 groups of 4 maximum)
tier 4: 8 participants at max (4 groups of 2 maximum, 2 groups of 1 minimum)
tier 5: 4 participants at max (2 groups of 2 or 2 groups of 1)
tier 6: 2 participants at max (2 groups of 1)

File: scripts.txt

1) For the total number of participants, find the instances of 64 in the body of the following scripts:

fill_tournament_participants_troop (2 instances in PoP, 1 in Native)
get_num_tournament_participants (1 instance)
get_random_tournament_participant (1 instance)
add_tournament_participant (1 instance)
sort_tournament_participant_troops (2 instances, but the 1st has to be {total_number - 1}, which is 64-1 = 63 by default)
remove_tournament_participants_randomly (2 instances)

Change all instances of 64 to the value you'd like (all should be the same), and the single instance of 63 to "value - 1". That will be the new amount for the total participants in tournaments.

2) And lastly, the factor at which participants get removed after each round you win can be found in this piece:

2133 2 1224979098644774913 72057594037927936 2123 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2 1 2


3) Just for the sake of clarity: the factor stands for the amount of troops removed after each round, relative to the remaining amount of participants. Change it to the value you'd like (it is still recommended that the total amount of participants set previously is the power of this factor). For example, if you set the total amount of participants to be 81 (and 1 instance of 80) and the factor to 3, then you'll have 10 rounds:

tier 1: 32 participants at max (4 groups of 8 maximum, which is the cap. Otherwise it would be 81)
tier 2: 32 participants at max (4 groups of 8 maximum, which is the cap. Otherwise it would be 81 - 81/3 = 54)
tier 3: 32 participants at max (4 groups of 8 maximum, which is the cap. Otherwise it would be 54 - 54/3 = 36)
tier 4: 24 participants at max (4 groups of 6 maximum. 36 - 36/3 = 24)
tier 5: 16 participants at max (4 groups of 4 maximum. 24 - 24/3 = 16)
tier 6: 11 participants at max (3 groups of 3 maximum. 16 - 16/3 ~= 11)
tier 7: 7 participants at max (3 groups of 2 maximum. 11 - 11/3 ~= 7)
tier 8: 5 participants at max (4 groups of 1 maximum (or 2 groups of 2?). 7 - 7/3 ~= 5)
tier 9: 3 participants at max (2 groups of 1 maximum. 5 - 5/3 ~= 3)
tier 10: 2 participants at max (2 groups of 1 maximum. 3 - 3/3 = 2)

A factor of 1 should technically make tournaments always last 1 round.

Tweak 7 f)

To make tournament bets be based on your renown rating - credits to VonDegurechaff and Dark_XSM

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak makes the possible tournament bets scale with your renown rating directly, on a 1:1 ratio. So with 10,000 renown, you can bet 10,000 denars in each round as the max amount. Since the bets will change over time as you progress, the described values can't be static, so percentages will be shown instead, relative to your max bet limit: 100%, 50%, 20%, 10% and 5%. The ratio between the earnings and the total amount of bets made remains the same as previously. Which means that betting 10,000 denars all the way through and winning the tournament will earn you 398,000 + 2000 = 400,000 denars (at best)

File: menus.txt

1) Find the line starting with this piece:

 mno_bet_500


In case of other mods, make sure that the 500 is set to the highest bet amount in order to find the piece.

2) And replace the whole line with this:

 mno_bet_100  6 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 144115188075856274 360287970189639680 7 30 2 1224979098644774912 20 30 2 144115188075856274 20 2108 2 144115188075856274 1 2107 2 144115188075856274 1  100%  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 144115188075856274 2060 1 864691128455135398  .  mno_bet_50  6 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 144115188075856275 360287970189639680 7 30 2 1224979098644774912 10 30 2 144115188075856275 10 2108 2 144115188075856275 2 2107 2 144115188075856275 1  50%  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 144115188075856275 2060 1 864691128455135398  .  mno_bet_20  6 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 144115188075856276 360287970189639680 7 30 2 1224979098644774912 4 30 2 144115188075856276 4 2108 2 144115188075856276 5 2107 2 144115188075856276 1  20%  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 144115188075856276 2060 1 864691128455135398  .  mno_bet_10  6 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 144115188075856277 360287970189639680 7 30 2 1224979098644774912 2 30 2 144115188075856277 2 2108 2 144115188075856277 10 2107 2 144115188075856277 1  10%  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 144115188075856277 2060 1 864691128455135398  .  mno_bet_5  6 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 520 3 144115188075856278 360287970189639680 7 30 2 1224979098644774912 1 30 2 144115188075856278 1 2108 2 144115188075856278 20 2107 2 144115188075856278 1  5%  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 144115188075856278 2060 1 864691128455135398  .  mno_go_back_dot  0  Go_back.  1 2060 1 864691128455135395  .


3) Make sure you have a gap before "mno_bet_100", as it was previously. In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above piece as follows:

144115188075856274 (5 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of qst_collect_taxes_total_hours variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855914 (5 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of temp variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
864691128455135398 (5 instances) with the number you get for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_tournament_bet_confirm from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856275 (5 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of qst_collect_taxes_hourly_income variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856276 (5 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of qst_collect_taxes_menu_counter variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856277 (5 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of qst_collect_taxes_unrest_counter variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856278 (5 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of qst_collect_taxes_halve_taxes variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
864691128455135395 (1 instance) with the number you get for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_town_tournament from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 7 g)

To change the amount of renown, relation, denars and experience you get after winning a tournament - credits to TheMageLord and tommylaw

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too

File: menus.txt

1) Find and observe this piece of code:

menu_town_tournament_won 4608 You_have_won_the_tournament_of_{s3}!_You_are_filled_with_pride_as_the_crowd_cheers_your_name._In_addition_to_honor,_fame_and_glory,_you_earn_a_prize_of_{reg9}_denars._{s8} none 325 2031 1 1441151880758558807 2330 2 3 144115188075856143 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 20 1 3 936748722493063444 144115188075856143 3 2105 2 144115188075856272 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 50 2105 2 1224979098644774912 10 501 3 144115188075856143 50 1224979098644774912 3 0 2319 1 8 2133 2 72057594037927945 2000 1062 2 250

20 is the amount of renown
3 is the amount of relation points with the hosting town
2000 is the amount of denars for the standard win (without the money from the bets)
250 is the amount of experience points

2) Change the above values to your liking. Note however that you can't get more than 29,999 experience points at a time, it's a hard limit. In case of other mods, simply find the line starting with You_have_won_the_tournament_of and search for the above values. They might be different though. For instance, in Native, the 250 is 200.

Tweak 7 h)

To earn renown upon winning arena fights - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for this piece of code:

And_of_course_you_won_the_grand_prize_of_the_fights:_{reg10}_denars.  1633  3 1 3


2) And replace it with this:

And_of_course_you_won_the_grand_prize_of_the_fights:_{reg10}_denars.  1633  5 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 10 1 3 936748722493063444 144115188075856143 1 1 3


The 10 indicates how much renown you'll gain per win and the 1 is the amount of relation you get with the given town upon doing so. Change them to something else if you want.

3) In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above pieces as follows in order to find it and have a correct replacement:

1633 with the number you got for arena_master_pre_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
936748722493063442 (scripts.txt): 936748722493063168 + № of change_troop_renown (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063444 (scripts.txt): 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_relation_with_center (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856143 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 7 i)

To change the monetary reward for winning an arena fight - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

Use this tweak only if TweakMB doesn't let you change the winning prize (2000 denars by default) of arena fights. For example because you've applied the tweak to get X renown too upon winning. The rewards for the lower positions should remain editable with TweakMB, which is the suggested method whenever possible (error-free editing).

File: conversation.txt

1) Find the two instances of the following code under dlga_arena_training_melee_intro_reward:arena_training_melee_intro_2 and dlga_arena_training_melee_explain_reward:arena_master_melee_pretalk respectively:

500 2133 2 72057594037927951 2000


2) Where the 500 is the prize money for dealing with 20 opponents (set it accordingly if you already edited it), and the 2000 is the sum for winning the whole fight. Set both of the 2000 to something else. In case of other mods, just find 2133 2 72057594037927951 within the mentioned conversation lines and you'll see the two values to the left and right of it.

3) Then search for these two pieces under dlga_arena_master_fight_result:arena_master_pre_talk.6:

2133 2 72057594037927946 2000

360287970189639680 2000 1062 2 200 360287970189639680


4) And once again, set both 2000 to something else (that is the same value that was set in point 2). In case of other mods, the default value is likely different, but you should have no problem in finding it, knowing what's the max amount for winning an arena fight.

Tweak 7 j)

To be able to choose your starting weapon in arena fights

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

dialog_states.txt
variables.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add these 2 lines to the very end of the file:

arena_master_weapon_type
arena_master_choose_weapon_type


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

2) Now open variables.txt and add this to the very end of the file:

g_wp_tpe_active


Make sure to still have an empty line at the very end.

3) Next, open conversation.txt, increase the 'conversation counter' at the top of the file (2nd line) by 5 (4152 -> 4157), then find the line starting with dlga_arena_master_melee_talk:close_window. Replace it with these 6:

dlga_arena_master_melee_talk:arena_master_weapon_type 69631 1630  0 Good._That's_what_I_am_going_to_do.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_arena_master_weapon_type:arena_master_choose_weapon_type 4095 1874  0 Which_weapon_would_you_like_to_use_in_the_fight?  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_arena_master_choose_weapon_type:close_window 69631 1875  0 One_handed_sword_&_Shield.  6  26 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 60 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 30 2133 2 144115188075856125 34 5 0 2133 2 144115188075856125 37 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856122 144115188075856143 2270 1 144115188075856123 2133 2 144115188075856124 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075857320 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 235 1 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 234 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 16 3 0 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 16 3 0 1261 1 1224979098644774913 1262 0 1263 2 144115188075856125 360287970189639680 1911 1 792633534417207325 1910 1 1224979098644774913 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_arena_master_choose_weapon_type:close_window.1 69631 1875  0 Two_handed_sword.  6  26 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 60 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 30 2133 2 144115188075856125 32 5 0 2133 2 144115188075856125 38 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856122 144115188075856143 2270 1 144115188075856123 2133 2 144115188075856124 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075857320 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 235 1 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 234 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 16 3 0 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 16 3 0 1261 1 1224979098644774913 1262 0 1263 2 144115188075856125 360287970189639680 1911 1 792633534417207325 1910 1 1224979098644774913 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_arena_master_choose_weapon_type:close_window.2 69631 1875  0 Bow_&_Dagger.  6  20 2133 2 144115188075856125 36 2133 2 144115188075856122 144115188075856143 2270 1 144115188075856123 2133 2 144115188075856124 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075857320 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 235 1 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 234 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 16 3 0 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 16 3 0 1261 1 1224979098644774912 1262 0 1263 2 144115188075856125 360287970189639680 1911 1 792633534417207325 1910 1 1224979098644774912 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_arena_master_choose_weapon_type:close_window.3 69631 1875  0 Quarterstaff.  6  29 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 60 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 20 2133 2 144115188075856125 33 5 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 40 2133 2 144115188075856125 35 5 0 2133 2 144115188075856125 39 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856122 144115188075856143 2270 1 144115188075856123 2133 2 144115188075856124 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075857320 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 235 1 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 234 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 16 3 0 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 16 3 0 1261 1 1224979098644774913 1262 0 1263 2 144115188075856125 360287970189639680 1911 1 792633534417207325 1910 1 1224979098644774913 NO_VOICEOVER 


4) Lastly, make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line match the values calculated in point 1), and that the instances of 144115188075857320 match the formula down below. It is only needed to check them if you added something else to dialog_states.txt and variables.txt respectively, due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 2) with the number you got for arena_master_weapon_type
1875 (line 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6) with the number you got for arena_master_choose_weapon_type
144115188075857320 (4 instances in total) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_wp_tpe_active variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

In case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

1630 (line 1) with the number you got for arena_master_melee_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
6 (line 3, 4, 5, 6) with the number you got for close_window in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
792633534417207325 with the number starting with the same 14 digits you see in dlga_arena_master_melee_talk:close_window
144115188075856125 (3 instances in line 3 & 4, 2 instances in line 5, 4 instances in line 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_entry_point variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856122 (1 instance in line 3, 4, 5 & 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of last_training_fight_town variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856143 (5 instances in line 3, 4, 5 & 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856123 (1 instance in line 3, 4, 5 & 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of training_fight_time variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856124 (1 instance in line 3, 4, 5 & 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_mt_mode variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

8. Field and Village Battles (12)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
8 a) To make dismounted/dehorsed mounted units stay in their own group or change their lances to shorter melee weapons
8 b) To reassign dehorsed horse archers to the "archers" group and change their lances to shorter melee weapons
8 c) To reassign mounted foot units to the 'cavalry' group and fix their commandability
8 d) To be able to whistle for the nearest horse
8 e) To make horses not get halted by polearms under a given amount of damage
8 f) To change the minimum number of seconds after which enemies will be allowed to flee (if routing is enabled)
8 g) To change the static preset size of battlefields
8 h) To make the set battle size match with the maximum amount of troops allowed on the battlefield
8 i) To add the ability to do battle without your party and still get the full benefits
8 j) To swap the spawn points of farmers and bandits upon village infestations
8 k) To disable village battle scenes when you fight against lords
8 l) To adjust the maximum party size that will cause villagers to fight back during a raid


Tweak 8 a)

To make dismounted/dehorsed mounted units stay in their own group or change their lances to shorter melee weapons - credits to Caba'drin and Vetrogor

Point 1) of this tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!
Point 1) of this tweak is incompatible with other reassignment tweaks!
Point 2) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: mission_templates.txt

1) To make dehorsed mounted units stay in their own group (not get assigned to the "infantry" group), find the section called mst_lead_charge and decrease the trigger counter a few lines below (a number by itself) by 4 (66 -> 62). Then delete the following lines from the body of the script:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 
-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  12 2071 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 1715 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 -1 3 0 505 3 1224979098644774912 45 1224979098644774913 
-26.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  13 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 525 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 45 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 1745 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1746 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1735 1 1224979098644774913 1732 1 1224979098644774913 1783 2 1224979098644774913 0 505 3 1224979098644774913 46 0 
1.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  9 12 1 1224979098644774912 1712 1 1224979098644774912 565 3 1224979098644774912 46 0 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 1224979098644774913 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 46 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 3 0 


To make dismounted/dehorsed mounted units get reassigned to infantry in other mods, simply add the above (i.e. revert the removal) to the mission template(s) of your choice.

The following point is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

2) Dismounted/dehorsed mounted units tend to keep using lances even if those are not meant for fights on foot. This will be no longer the case, as we will change their lances to shorter and therefore more appropriate melee weapons. To do so, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections (doesn't work for sieges, for that, use the other tweak in the "Sieges" section):

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)

Then for each section, add the following line (trigger) right under the previously increased counter, as a new line in each:

-56.000000 0.000000 0.000000  5 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1700 1 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 1704 1 1224979098644774912  28 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 30 2 1224979098644774915 0 1570 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 4 2723 2 1224979098644774915 2147483648 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 3 31 2 1224979098644774916 4 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 1718 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 2172 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 0 2133 2 1224979098644774920 1190 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774919 13 2133 2 1224979098644774920 1304 3 0 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774920 1747 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774920


If the dismounted unit's Strength is greater than or equal to 13, then his lance will be replaced with a Morningstar (item entry #1304). And if his Strength is less than 13, then the lance will be replaced with a simple Sword (item entry #1190). Replace these weapons with something else if you so desire. You can most easily check item entry numbers with Morgh's Editor. 13 is the standard STR requirement for a Morningstar. To make this work with other mods, you'll have to adjust the weapons to be given to mounted units.

Tweak 8 b)

To reassign dehorsed horse archers to the "archers" group and change their lances to shorter melee weapons - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!
The reassignment does not affect the last 3 custom divisions!

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Find this piece of code under the section called mst_lead_charge:

-26.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  13 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 525 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 45 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 1745 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1746 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1735 1 1224979098644774913 1732 1 1224979098644774913 1783 2 1224979098644774913 0 505 3 1224979098644774913 46 0


This trigger doesn't exist in other mods, so just ignore this step in case of those.

2) And replace it with this:

-26.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  57 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 525 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 45 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 1745 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1746 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1735 1 1224979098644774913 1732 1 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 30 2 1224979098644774917 0 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 8 31 2 1224979098644774918 9 1727 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774913 0 30 2 1224979098644774919 5 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 4 2723 2 1224979098644774917 2147483648 2133 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774917 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 3 31 2 1224979098644774918 4 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 3 0 1773 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774913 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774924 6 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 1783 2 1224979098644774913 1 505 3 1224979098644774913 46 1 5 0 1783 2 1224979098644774913 0 505 3 1224979098644774913 46 0 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 1 1774 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774920 1718 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774913 2172 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 0 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1190 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774922 13 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1304 3 0 1779 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774923 1747 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774923


If the dehorsed unit has less than 5 ammunition left, then it will be immediately reassigned to the infantry group. Change that 5 to 0 if you want. If the dehorsed unit has a lance and no other melee weapons, and if its Strength is greater than or equal to 13, then his lance will be replaced with a Morningstar (item entry #1304). And if his Strength is less than 13, then the lance will be replaced with a simple Sword (item entry #1190). Replace these weapons with something else if you so desire. You can most easily check item entry numbers with Morgh's Editor. 13 is the standard STR requirement for a Morningstar. As for other mods, just add the previous trigger as a new line, without replacing anything. After making the necessary item adjustments, increase the trigger counter by 1 under the respective mission template(s).

3) If you wish, you can apply this tweak to bandit infestations and village fights too. If so, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 2 under the following sections:

mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 26)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 29)

Add the following 2 lines (triggers) right under the previously increased counters, as a new line each:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  12 2071 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 1715 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 -1 3 0 505 3 1224979098644774912 45 1224979098644774913 
-26.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  57 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 525 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 45 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 1745 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1746 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1735 1 1224979098644774913 1732 1 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 30 2 1224979098644774917 0 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 8 31 2 1224979098644774918 9 1727 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774913 0 30 2 1224979098644774919 5 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 4 2723 2 1224979098644774917 2147483648 2133 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774917 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 3 31 2 1224979098644774918 4 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 3 0 1773 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774913 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774924 6 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 1783 2 1224979098644774913 1 505 3 1224979098644774913 46 1 5 0 1783 2 1224979098644774913 0 505 3 1224979098644774913 46 0 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 1 1774 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774920 1718 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774913 2172 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 0 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1190 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774922 13 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1304 3 0 1779 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774923 1747 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774923


In case of other mods, adjust the weapons to be given to troops.

4) If you DIDN'T add the tweak to reassign archers, crossbowmen and arquebusiers to the division of your choice after depleting their ammo, then once again, increase the trigger counters by 2 under the same sections. Otherwise skip this step:

mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (26 -> 28)
mst_village_raid - village fights (29 -> 31)

For each section, add the following 2 lines (triggers) right under the previously increased counters, as a new line each. Likewise in case of other mods:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1
1.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  9 12 1 1224979098644774912 1712 1 1224979098644774912 565 3 1224979098644774912 46 0 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 1224979098644774913 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 46 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 3 0 


Tweak 8 c)

To reassign mounted foot units to the 'cavalry' group and fix their commandability - credits to Vetrogor

Points 1-4 of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

Mounted foot units (those that you ordered to mount) won't change their division to cavalry, while they should. Also, when using advanced formations on such troops (<j>, <k>, <l>, <;>) or if you move them from the <backspace> tactical menu, they will freeze down. These issues will be fixed in this tweak.

Files:

mission_templates.txt
menus.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open mission_templates.txt and increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 3 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 69)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 27)

2) Right under the previously increased counters, add the following 3 triggers, as a new line each:

-55.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  36 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 33 3 1224979098644774913 0 6 1783 2 1224979098644774912 2 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 2 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 4 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774915 1804 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 3 31 2 1224979098644774918 4 2147486371 2 1224979098644774917 268435456 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 0 1718 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774912 2171 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774919 2172 3 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774919 0 2133 2 1224979098644774922 288230376151712934 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774921 15 30 2 1224979098644774920 35 2133 2 1224979098644774922 288230376151713113 3 0 1726 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774912 0 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774923 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774922 1747 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774922 3 0 
2.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  0  5 6 3 1224979098644774912 0 4 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 8 1790 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 3 3 0 3 0 
-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  12 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1507 1 1224979098644774913 1541 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 8 2147483680 2 1224979098644774914 0 2170 3 1224979098644774915 1369094286720630808 1224979098644774913 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 500 3 1224979098644774913 501 1224979098644774915 2107 2 1224979098644774915 -1 1521 3 1224979098644774913 1369094286720630808 1224979098644774915 


All mounted foot units will get a simple Sword (288230376151712934) to make sure that they have a sidearm for horseback combat. Additionally, units whose Strength and Level is greater than or equal to 15 and 35 respectively, will get a Long Knight Lance (288230376151713113) as well. Replace these weapons with something else if you so desire (288230376151711744 + entry number seen in Morgh's Editor). 15 is the standard strength requirement for a Long Knight Lance. There are 2 instances of each item among the above lines. In case of other mods, adjust the 2 items (4 values in total) accordingly, as well as the 2 instances of 1369094286720630808 (in line 3) accordingly, so that it corresponds to 1369094286720630784 + № of trade skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

3) Now check if the following trigger can already be found under mst_village_attack_bandits:

1.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  9 12 1 1224979098644774912 1712 1 1224979098644774912 565 3 1224979098644774912 46 0 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 1224979098644774913 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 46 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 3 0 


If so, then skip this step. If not, then once again, increase the trigger counter by 1 under the aforementioned section (27 -> 28), and add the above trigger right under the increased counter, as a new line. Likewise in case of other mods!

4) Next, we allow foot units to ride horses by giving them their riding skill from their troop template. To do that, open menus.txt and find the line starting with this piece:

menu_battle_debrief 4608 {s11}^^Your_casualties:{s8}{s10}^^Enemy_casualties:{s9}


Increase the operation counter in there (after "none") by 6 (157 -> 163), then add the following piece right after the counter, separated by 1 gap from each side:

6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 360287970189640882 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 501 32 2 1224979098644774913 0 1521 3 1224979098644774912 1369094286720630808 1224979098644774913 500 3 1224979098644774912 501 0 3 0


So that the result looks like this:

menu_battle_debrief 4608 {s11}^^Your_casualties:{s8}{s10}^^Enemy_casualties:{s9}^^Kill_count:{s12} none 163 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 360287970189640882 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 501 32 2 1224979098644774913 0 1521 3 1224979098644774912 1369094286720630808 1224979098644774913 500 3 1224979098644774912 501 0 3 0


In case of other mods, the resulting piece might look differently. Furthermore, you'll have to adjust the highlighted 360287970189640882 to be that of the last troop's ID + 1 (360287970189639680 + entry number in the Troops Editor of Morgh's Editor). Also, make sure that the 2 instances of 1369094286720630808 correspond to 1369094286720630784 + № of trade skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

5) Lastly, we will fix the commandability of mounted foot units. For that, open scripts.txt and replace the body of the script called classify_agent with this:

18 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 1770 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1792 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 2133 2 72057594037927936 -1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856337 1773 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 5 0 1772 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 3 0 4 0 525 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 46 32 2 1224979098644774915 -1 2147483679 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774915 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774915 3 0 


This script likely does not exist in other mods.

Tweak 8 d)

To be able to whistle for the nearest horse - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak will allow you to call for a horse in a 50m radius with a whistle, by pressing "H". However, the horse will not track your movement, and will come to the spot where you stood at the time of pressing the button, so keep that in mind. The conditions for this to work are:

The player has to be alive and dismounted
The horse cannot have a rider
The distance between the player and the horse should be less than 50m
If there are multiple horses within that distance, then only the closest one will answer the call, so you can't call for more than one horse at a time. To call the next one, you have to kill the closest horse first.

Files:

sounds.txt
mission_templates.txt

1) First and foremost, download this whistle sound and copy it to the "Sounds" folder of PoP: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_Orqn1KkQSj6xd-fQ23ty19DWOxvPeX9/view?usp=sharing

2) Then, open sounds.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (1342 -> 1343), and put this entry after fl_pistol.WAV 2720, or in case of other mods, to before the secondary counter from where entries don't have an extra space before them any longer:

horse_whistle.ogg 2720


So that the result will look like this:

 tavernsound.ogg 2182
 fl_pistol.WAV 2720
 horse_whistle.ogg 2720
639
snd_click 769 1 0 0
snd_tutorial_1 1801 1 1 0


3) Next, increase that highlighted secondary counter (639) by 1 (639 -> 640), and copy the following entry to the end of the file:

snd_horse_whistle 2720 1 1342 0


Make sure that there remains and empty line at the very end of the file! In case you added another sound sample to sounds.txt as shown in point 2), or in case of other mods, also make sure that the highlighted 1342 corresponds to the line number of horse_whistle.ogg 2720 - 3 (by default, that being 1345 - 3 = 1342)

4) Now open mission_templates.txt, and increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)

5) For each section, add the following trigger right under the previously increased counters, as a new line each:

0.000000 1.000000 1.000000  6 71 1 35 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1714 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774913 -1 1750 2 1224979098644774912 1152921504606847615  27 2133 2 1224979098644774912 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 1700 1 1224979098644774914 1710 2 10 1224979098644774914 12 1 1224979098644774915 1702 1 1224979098644774915 2147485352 1 1224979098644774915 1715 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 31 2 1224979098644774916 -1 1710 2 11 1224979098644774915 711 3 1224979098644774917 10 11 2147483680 2 1224979098644774917 50 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774918 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 3 0 3 0 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 0 1730 2 1224979098644774912 10 3 0 


Once again, in case you added another sound entry to the end of sounds.txt as shown in point 3) due a different tweak, or in case of other mods, you need to adjust the 1152921504606847615 to this: 1152921504606846976 + № snd_horse_whistle in sounds.txt (line - counter_in_2nd_line_of_the_file - 4 in Notepad++) (e.g. 1152921504606846976 + 1986 - 1343 - 4 = 1152921504606847615)

Tweak 8 e)

To make horses not get halted by polearms under a given amount of damage - credits to Dalion

No more peasants stopping cavalry charges with pitchforks! With this new system, horses will only rear when:

they got hit with a polearm on foot
the hit was a thrust (overswings don't count)
the hit landed on the first half of the horse's body
the horse was moving at a medium speed at least (to prevent stunlock)
the damage of the hit was higher than the given threshold (if the threshold is set to 0, then horses will never rear whatsoever)

All these conditions need to be fulfilled to stop a horse. Additionally, if you wish, you may allow horses to drop off their rider upon rearing.

Files:

module.ini
mission_templates.txt

1) Open module.ini and put this line to the end of the file:

horses_rear_with_attack = 0


2) Then open mission_templates.txt and increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)

3) Right under the previously increased counters, add the following trigger as a new line:

-28.000000 0.000000 2.000000  0  41 2070 2 1224979098644774912 1 2070 2 1224979098644774913 2 2070 2 1224979098644774914 3 2070 2 1224979098644774915 4 2133 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774917 30 2133 2 1224979098644774918 0 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 1712 1 1224979098644774912 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 72057594037927936 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774920 72057594037927936 31 2 1224979098644774920 4 1767 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774921 0 1714 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774922 -1 1768 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774912 0 33 3 1224979098644774923 1801439850948198955 1801439850948198958 33 3 1224979098644774915 2 18 1719 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151711981 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151711980 33 3 1224979098644774924 288230376151711969 288230376151711973 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774917 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 5 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774916 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774919 1 1740 3 1224979098644774912 1801439850948198959 0 1740 3 1224979098644774912 1801439850948198959 1 6 3 72057594037927996 0 3 1750 2 1224979098644774912 1152921504606847324 3 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774918 0 1751 1 1224979098644774912


The 30 is the damage threshold for some distinguished armored (visually) and tall horses, namely: Jatu Warbeast, Ravenstern/Sarleon Armored Warhorse, Pendor Royal Steed and Demon Charger. The 30 is the damage threshold for all other horses, except for Fallen Horse. Since that horse is undead, it shouldn’t feel pain and thus it will never rear from polearms, no matter the damage. The 0 is the aforementioned bonus feature of horses dropping off their rider upon rearing, which is disabled by default (equals 0). To enable it, set the value to 1.

Tweak 8 f)

To change the minimum number of seconds after which enemies will be allowed to flee (if routing is enabled) - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) You will find the following piece of code under both decide_run_away_or_not and formation_decide_run_away_or_not scripts:

15 1 5 0 30 2 1224979098644774913 180


2) Change both 180 to a value of your choice, which will be the minimum amount of time needed, expressed in seconds. In Native and probably other mods too, only the decide_run_away_or_not script exists, and the minimum number of seconds is 45.

Tweak 8 g)

To change the static preset size of battlefields

This tweak aims at changing any (or all) of the preset battlefield sizes of 240x240m, 550x550m and 840x840m in the mod options menu.

Files:

scenes.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) Open scenes.txt and find these 7 entries, depending on which battlefield size you want to edit:

240x240m battlefields:

scn_random_scene_steppe_small random_scene_steppe_small 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x0000000326060c090003c0f00000398800002f65000001c6
  0
  0
 outer_terrain_steppe
scn_random_scene_plain_small random_scene_plain_small 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x000000033601808e4003c0f000005523000055b00000ab62
  0
  0
 outer_terrain_plain
scn_random_scene_snow_small random_scene_snow_small 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x000000034344058d0003c0f0000075ec0000178e00002fbd
  0
  0
 outer_terrain_snow
scn_random_scene_desert_small random_scene_desert_small 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003560243a40003c0f0000052bc00005c8b0000756e
  0
  0
 outer_terrain_desert
scn_random_scene_steppe_forest_small random_scene_steppe_forest_small 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003a5828b4200041104000005d900005c8b00006ff4
  0
  0
 outer_terrain_steppe
scn_random_scene_plain_forest_small random_scene_plain_forest_small 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003a50287420003c0f0000005d900005c8b00006ff4
  0
  0
 outer_terrain_plain
scn_random_scene_snow_forest_small random_scene_snow_forest_small 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 240.000000 240.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003c80286200003c0f0000005d900005c8b00006ff4
  0
  0
 outer_terrain_snow


550x550m battlefields:

scn_random_scene_steppe_normal random_scene_steppe_normal 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 550.000000 550.000000 -0.500000 0x000000032604070c00089a260000457600003b3200007cb2 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_steppe 
scn_random_scene_plain_normal random_scene_plain_normal 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 550.000000 550.000000 -0.500000 0x000000033602408300089a26000075ec0000178e00002fbd 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_plain 
scn_random_scene_snow_normal random_scene_snow_normal 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 550.000000 550.000000 -0.500000 0x000000034604048900089a26000075ec0000178e00002fbd 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_snow 
scn_random_scene_desert_normal random_scene_desert_normal 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 550.000000 550.000000 -0.500000 0x000000035602c4a400089a26000052bc00005c8b0000756e 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_desert 
scn_random_scene_steppe_forest_normal random_scene_steppe_forest_normal 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 550.000000 550.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003a4c145af00089a26000005d900005c8b00006ff4 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_steppe 
scn_random_scene_plain_forest_normal random_scene_plain_forest_normal 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 550.000000 550.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003b9a0c08500089a2600004ec80000f7b80000a7b4 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_plain 
scn_random_scene_snow_forest_normal random_scene_snow_forest_normal 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 550.000000 550.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003c58248a900089a26000005d900005c8b00006ff4 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_snow 


840x840m battlefields:

scn_random_scene_steppe_large random_scene_steppe_large 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 840.000000 840.000000 -0.500000 0x0000000322e18404000d2348000046f500000652000078df 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_large_steppe 
scn_random_scene_plain_large random_scene_plain_large 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 840.000000 840.000000 -0.500000 0x0000000334008001000d23480000fd8a0000d59e00009773 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_large_plain 
scn_random_scene_snow_large random_scene_snow_large 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 840.000000 840.000000 -0.500000 0x000000034380858c000d2348000046f500000652000078df 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_large_snow 
scn_random_scene_desert_large random_scene_desert_large 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 840.000000 840.000000 -0.500000 0x0000000350000000000d2348000078d800000aba00004a10 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_large_desert 
scn_random_scene_steppe_forest_large random_scene_steppe_forest_large 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 840.000000 840.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003a4000000000d2348000047c50000ea04000084ff 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_large_steppe 
scn_random_scene_plain_forest_large random_scene_plain_forest_large 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 840.000000 840.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003bca00000000d23480000c7d400005ccd000004d9 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_large_plain 
scn_random_scene_snow_forest_large random_scene_snow_forest_large 1792 none none 0.000000 0.000000 840.000000 840.000000 -0.500000 0x00000003cf200000000d2348000046f500000652000078df 
  0 
  0 
 outer_terrain_large_snow 


2) Notice the pieces in blue (YYY.000000 XXX.000000) in each entry. Those define the x-y movement limiters (meaning how far you can go before reaching the boundaries of the map) for the "small", "normal" and "large" maps. Change these for all 7 entries within a size category. The minimum and maximum areas that won't cause issues are 140x140m (140.000000) and 840x840m (840.000000) respectively. Also, for the best AI behaviour, it is recommended to set each pair of x-y lengths to the same value, resulting in a square map.

3) Now we change the actual size of battlemaps, by changing the hexadecimal arrays seen in each entry in red. Since it's rather complicated to do so manually, we will use the 'edit mode' of the game for help. Once you have it enabled in your launcher, start up Warband, load your savegame, and go to the world map. Then you'll see a "Terrain" button at the bottom left corner of your screen: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/769483118601209850/5E86409129C2DF1839B89A39B15F0F7D553B2186/

4) Now, copy the first hexadecimal number of your choice (CTRL + C), go back to your game, click on that "Terrain" button and then click on "paste" at the top. As a result, this screen should welcome you: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/769483118601251679/206BD9AC06242E4DED6E05BFDDD852B517E6FD2F/ (don't mind the left side, I also clicked on the "Generate Terrain" button, just for showcase. It's the right side that truly matters)

5) "Size y" and "Size x" are the two sliders you are looking for. In the above example they are set to a 240x240 meter area. The leftmost end of the slider equals 140 meters, while the rightmost side equals 840 meters. Set them to the value you find appealing in retrospect to these two limits (should roughly be the same as the x-y movemement limiters set previously). Upon being inside the terrain editor, the "Terrain" should say which kind of battle map you are working on currently (steppe, snow, forest, etc.) as a help. You may also change other parameters, such as the amount of vegetation (reduces fps a bit). You can check the results by clicking on the "Generate Terrain" button at the buttom. Notice that adjusting all these things will change the above hex number as well.

6) Once you are done, click on the "copy" button at the top. Then paste that number (CTRL + V) to the place where you copied it from in scenes.txt, overwriting the previous value. Make sure you edit the right kind of battlefield, both in terms of size and type (snow, steppe, forest, etc.)! Now do this to the remaining 6 entries too within a size category. Quit the game in the end.

7) Next, open quick_strings.txt and find these lines:

qstr_840x840m 840x840m
qstr_550x550m 550x550m
qstr_240x240m 240x240m


Adjust the highlighted areas to what you've set them up to, so that the choosable options in the Mod Options menu will appear correctly.

8) Lastly, start your game, this time without the 'edit mode'. Go to the mod options menu and select the battlemap size that you've just tweaked.

Tweak 8 h)

To make the set battle size match with the maximum amount of troops allowed on the battlefield - credits to Vetrogor

With the help of this tweak, the total number of troops on the battlefield will match with the value you set with the in-game battle size slider until the battle advantage stays in the [-12;12] range. Within that range, the total amount of troops will not be bigger than 420, that's why we will set this value as the maximum down below. The actual amount of your own troops - and thus the ratio with enemy troops - will vary based on how much battle advantage you have. Tactics skill directly affects it too, from both sides. Exceeding the aforementioned range means that the difference in party sizes becomes too big, in which case the total amount of troops might become gradually bigger than what the set size would allow, depending on whose side is the bigger. Last but not least, keep in mind that there is a hardcap for the amount of troops allowed to be present on your side, no matter how big your battle advantage becomes: 280. The enemy side doesn't have this kind of restriction.

File: module.ini

1) Open module.ini and find this entry:

battle_size_max = 530


2) And change it to:

battle_size_max = 420


In sieges, the number of soldiers will be slightly smaller. Decreasing the battle_size_min = 100 to a lower value on its own will have no effect on the maximum amount of troops allowed to spawn, the maximum limit will stay at 100 at lowest within the [-12;12] battle advantage boundaries. To actually decrease the battlesize below 100, you need to apply the corresponding tweak from section 10.

Tweak 8 i)

To add the ability to do battle without your party and still get the full benefits - credits to Dalion

This tweak allows you to solo enemies (get loot and renown accordingly), while you can still keep your full party. Upon any battle of your choice, all of your own troops will be left out like if you were fighting alone. If allies help you in battle however, their troops will appear in battle, but the renown after it will correspond to the case if you were alone. Which is a bit of an exploit if you do it on purpose. The loot share in this case hasn't been tested yet. Likewise, if you tell your companions to "stay away from battle", then they will still show up upon choosing the respective option, but the amount of renown and loot gained will be like if you were fighting alone.

Further behaviour of this feature:

In case of losses - you will be transferred back to the battle engagement menu (without any major penalties)
In case of victories - you'll get all the loot and renown accordingly, and the post-battle experience will be shared between your entire party, as usual.

File: menus.txt

1) Find the line called menu_simple_encounter and increase the submenu counter at the very end of it by 1 (5 -> 6). Then find this piece:

mno_encounter_leave


2) And replace it with this:

mno_encounter_attack_alone  1 2147485156 1 360287970189639680  Send_your_troops_back_and_fight_alone.  61 2133 2 144115188075856193 0 2133 2 144115188075856194 1 1609 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856280 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 576460752303423585 372 1 27 3 0 4 0 200 1 504403158265495616 1 3 936748722493063320 144115188075856280 0 501 3 144115188075856280 56 72057594037927936 1695 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1696 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856280 1224979098644774914 1 3 936748722493063320 1224979098644774915 0 501 3 1224979098644774915 56 72057594037927936 3 0 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927992 1337 1 3 936748722493063336 648518346341351433 648518346341351424 1617 1 648518346341351424 1617 1 648518346341351441 1 1 936748722493063503 1 1 936748722493063506 1 1 936748722493063390 1691 1 72057594037927936 1020 0 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075857071 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856195 1 2133 2 144115188075856195 0 5 0 603 1 1024 601 2 144115188075857071 1 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856191 1 2133 2 144115188075856196 0 1911 1 792633534417207310 521 3 1224979098644774916 144115188075856190 10 1910 1 1224979098644774916 5 0 31 2 144115188075856191 2 2133 2 144115188075856196 0 1911 1 792633534417207310 521 3 1224979098644774916 144115188075856190 10 1910 1 1224979098644774916 5 0 1911 1 792633534417207308 1 3 936748722493063355 648518346341351440 0 2133 2 1224979098644774917 72057594037927936 1 3 936748722493063355 648518346341351439 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 72057594037927936 2120 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774918 1 2 936748722493063468 1224979098644774919 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856192 864691128455135305 2060 1 864691128455135311 2048 0  .  mno_encounter_leave


Make sure that there are exactly 2 gaps/spaces to the left and right of the inserted code.

3) Next, within the section called menu_battle_debrief, find the first number (operation counter) after Enemy_casualties:{s9}. Increase it by 5 (157 -> 162), and add the following code right after it:

4 0 31 2 72057594037927992 1337 1 3 936748722493063336 648518346341351424 648518346341351433 2133 2 72057594037927992 1338 3 0


Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap/space to the left and right of the inserted code!

Tweak 8 j)

To swap the spawn points of farmers and bandits upon village infestations - credits to Leonion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

Currently, whenever you help farmers in defending their village, bandits spawn inside the village, while you and the farmers spawn on the outside, like if you were the invaders. Whereas bandits usually raze villages from the outside, take what they want and then move on. This tweak swaps the spawning points to make this fight a more realistic scenario.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) At the section called village_attack_bandits, have a look at these 3 lines:

3 3 8208 0 16 1 0  
1 33558528 0 16 7 0  
1 4112 0 16 1 0


2) Change the bolded 1-s to 3 and the 3 to 1, so that the above piece would look like this:

3 1 8208 0 16 1 0  
3 33558528 0 16 7 0  
3 4112 0 16 1 0


Tweak 8 k)

To disable village battle scenes when you fight against lords - credits to Leonion

If you use this tweak, you will no longer fight lords that are raiding one of your villages in a village scene. Such battles will be ordinary field battles.

File: menus.txt

1) Find the section called menu_simple_encounter

2) Decrease the first number after "{s2}_You_have_{reg10}_troops_fit_for_battle_against_their_{reg11}. none" by 23 (123 -> 100)

3) Locate and delete the following piece of code:

4 0 541 3 144115188075856187 4 5 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856187 5 2281 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 144115188075856187 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 4 2133 2 144115188075856190 1224979098644774912 2133 2 144115188075856191 1 3 0 3 0 4 0 32 2 144115188075856242 0 2133 2 144115188075856190 144115188075856242 2133 2 144115188075856191 2 1663 2 144115188075856190 1 2320 2 7 1585267068834416582 1106 2 216172782113783958 16732240 5 0 31 2 144115188075856191 1 1663 2 144115188075856190 0 2320 2 7 1585267068834416582 1106 2 216172782113783959 5308240 3 0


4) Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap/space remaining at the place of the removed content.

Tweak 8 l)

To adjust the maximum party size that will cause villagers to fight back during a raid - credits to Hardrada

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

File: menus.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 25


2) If your party has 25 or less people in it, then the villagers will fight back. Increase the 25 to a larger number if you wish to make them fight even against a larger party of yours.

9. Sieges (9)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
9 a) To reassign all troops to "infantry" and "archers" during sieges, and replace lances with melee weapons fit for sieges
9 b) To disable the ammo reduction upon sally-outs
9 c) To fix the bug of sally-outs requiring you to stay conscious in order to win
9 d) To disable siege defenders from charging out
9 e) To change the number of soldiers spawned in further stages of siege assaults
9 f) To change the rates of ammo refilling in a siege defense
9 g) To spread out the defending ranged unit reinforcements equally between archer spawn points
9 h) To adjust the requirements needed for the defenders to surrender
9 i) To add the ability to besiege friendly castles/towns


Tweak 9 a)

To reassign all troops to "infantry" and "archers" during sieges, and replace lances with melee weapons fit for sieges - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!
The reassignment does not affect the last 3 custom divisions!

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)

2) For each section, add the following line (trigger) to the end (before another "mst_" starts), as a new line each:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  5 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1700 1 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 1704 1 1224979098644774912  45 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 30 2 1224979098644774916 0 1570 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 17 31 2 1224979098644774917 9 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 4 2723 2 1224979098644774916 2147483648 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774916 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 3 31 2 1224979098644774917 4 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0 1773 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774922 6 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 1 5 0 1783 2 1224979098644774912 0 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 0 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774918 1718 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774912 2172 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774919 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 1190 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774920 13 2133 2 1224979098644774921 1304 3 0 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774921


Make sure that you have 2 empty lines left before the next mission template

3) If the agent (troop) has a lance and if his Strength is greater than or equal to 13, then his lance will be replaced with a Morningstar (item entry #1304). And if his Strength is less than 13, then the lance will be replaced with a simple Sword (item entry #1190). Replace these weapons with something else if you so desire. You can most easily check item entry numbers with Morgh's Editor. 13 is the standard STR requirement for a Morningstar. In case of other mods, adjust the ID of the 2 items accordingly!

4) In case you DIDN'T apply the tweak to reassign archers, crossbowmen and arquebusiers to the "infantry" group after depleting their ammo, then once again, increase the trigger counters by 2 under the same sections. Otherwise skip this step:

mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (57 -> 59)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (43 -> 45)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (38 -> 40)

For each section, add the following 2 lines (triggers) right under the previously increased counters, as a new line each:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 
1.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  9 12 1 1224979098644774912 1712 1 1224979098644774912 565 3 1224979098644774912 46 0 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 1224979098644774913 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 46 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 3 0 


Tweak 9 b)

To disable the ammo reduction upon sally-outs - credits to Leonion

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Find this line:

0.100000 0.500000 100000000.000000  0  1 1 3 936748722493063848 0 6


2) And replace the part in bold with 0

3) Make sure that there are 2 gaps/spaces left between the first and the replacement 0, and that 1 gap follows the latter at the end

Tweak 9 c)

To fix the bug of sally-outs requiring you to stay conscious in order to win - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

Despite that your troops stand victorious after a sally-out battle, if you got KO-d in the meantime, you'll need to retreat, making you lose the battle and get the given penalties. This is wrong, so it's getting fixed in this tweak.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Open mission_templates.txt and find this trigger piece under the mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally template:

2370 1 72057594037927937 30 2 72057594037927937 10 1003 1 2 2147484654 1 0 1906 1 1


2) Remove the blue part and decrease the operation counter before the searched piece by 1 (12 -> 11). Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains at the place of the deleted operation.

Tweak 9 d)

To disable siege defenders from charging out - credits to Vetrogor

The feature in question got inherited from Native, assigning the AI-controlled siege defenders a "Charge!" order after a given amount of reinforcement waves spent. This tweak removes the code responsible for making this happen, allowing defenders to hold ground until the last man standing.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Find the 2 instances of this trigger:

3.000000 0.000000 5.000000  0  26 2147483678 2 144115188075856321 144115188075857270 2370 1 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774912 2 2385 2 1224979098644774913 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 30 1930 2 4 10 2105 2 144115188075856321 1 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 300 1700 1 1224979098644774914 1770 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075856381 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075856383 30 2 144115188075856321 2 1107 1 0 1790 3 144115188075856381 0 2 1790 3 144115188075856383 0 2 1790 3 144115188075856381 2 2 1790 3 144115188075856383 2 2 1107 1 1 30 2 144115188075856321 4 1107 1 0 1790 3 144115188075856381 9 2 1790 3 144115188075856383 9 2 1107 1 1 3 0


2) And replace them both with this:

3.000000 0.000000 5.000000  0  7 2147483678 2 144115188075856321 144115188075857270 2370 1 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774912 2 2385 2 1224979098644774913 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 30 1930 2 4 10 2105 2 144115188075856321 1


Tweak 9 e)

To change the number of soldiers spawned in further stages of siege assaults - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak will only work if the number of reinforcement waves is not too high, so that not all defenders get defeated during the first stage of the siege!

File: mission_templates.txt

1) For the number of soldiers spawned in towns' courtyard during the second stage of siege assaults, find these lines under mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center:

8 0 33562752 256 16 8 0
2 33558592 256 16 3 0
23 33558592 256 16 3 0
24 33558592 256 16 3 0
25 33558592 256 16 3 0
26 33558592 256 16 3 0
27 33558592 256 16 3 0
28 33558592 256 16 3 0


Each line is a different spawn point in a town's courtyard. The 8 is for how many allies you get (they all spawn around you at the same point). All the rest are the enemy spawn points, each one of them getting 3 men. You could change all those to 6 for example, to double up the amount of enemies from each spawn point. Beware however that if you set the amount of soldiers too high, then you may run into problems like having troops spawn inside a wall if the spawn point is too close to one. The 8 is actually a 4 and the series of 3 are 1 in Native, so these numbers might be different in other mods too.

2) For the number of soldiers spawned in towns' and castles' castle hall during the final stage of siege assaults, find these lines under mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle:

8 0 33562752 256 16 1 0  
6 33562752 256 16 1 0  
7 33562752 256 16 1 0  
16 33558592 256 16 1 0  
17 33558592 256 16 1 0  
18 33558592 256 16 1 0  
19 33558592 256 16 1 0  
20 33558592 256 16 1 0


Each line is a different spawn point inside a town's or castle's castle hall. The 1-s are for the amount of attackers (your side) per spawn point, and the 1-s are for the amount of defenders (the enemy) per spawn point. Once again, you could double them all to double up the number of soldiers per spawn point. This template is used on both the 3rd stage of town siege assaults and the 2nd stage of castle siege assaults. Beware however that if you set the amount of soldiers too high, then you may run into problems like having troops spawn inside a wall if the spawn point is too close to one.

Tweak 9 f)

To change the rates of ammo refilling in a siege defense

This tweak can be applied to other mods too after minor adjustments

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Find the 3 instances of these two triggers under mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry and mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder:

60.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  10 1700 1 1224979098644774912 12 1 1224979098644774913 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1704 1 1224979098644774913 1770 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075856381 31 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075856383 1728 1 1224979098644774913 3 0

180.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  6 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1770 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856381 31 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856383 1728 1 1224979098644774912


2) That 180 is the amount of seconds after which you (the player) will get an ammo refill in a defensive siege, and the 60 is the amount of seconds after which the AI (everyone else) will get an ammo refill in a defensive siege. Change these values to your liking (3 times).

3) For the player, if you want to make it as it was in v3.8, which was every 60 seconds, then you could just delete the whole entry of the trigger starting with 180.000000 (all 3 instances), and then decrease the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 41)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 36)

The trigger starting with 60.000000 will automatically apply to the player as well once the other one is no longer present.

4) To add ammo refill during siege defense to other mods, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) of mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry and mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder by 2. Then for each section, add the 2 lines (triggers) from point 1) right after the previously increased counters, as a new line each. Last but not least, replace these numbers as follows in both lines:

144115188075856381 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of defender_team from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856383 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of defender_team_2 from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 9 g)

To spread out the defending ranged unit reinforcements equally between archer spawn points - credits to Dalion

This tweak is mutually exclusive with any other tweak that touches the siege_move_archers_to_archer_positions script!

The added script below will affect all defending soldiers with long range weapons (bows, crossbows and firearms) on the defender's side, not only the ones assigned to the "archers" group.

Files:

scripts.txt
mission_templates.txt

In case you haven't modified your scripts.txt or mission_templates.txt file, you can simply copy the content of the folder named OPTIONAL_ARCHERS_SIEGE_DEFENCE_BEHAVIOUR under the _README_POP folder, to the mod's main installation directory - so to two directories up -, and overwrite everything. Otherwise you'll need to do some manual tweaking as presented in the upcoming points.

1) Open scripts.txt, find the script called siege_move_archers_to_archer_positions and replace everything in its body with this:

48 12 1 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774912 545 3 1224979098644774912 5 0 1708 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774913 4 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1804 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 1570 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 9 31 2 1224979098644774916 17 505 3 1224979098644774912 420 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 -1 3 0 4 0 545 3 1224979098644774912 420 1 545 3 1224979098644774912 11 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 421 1 2136 3 1224979098644774917 40 47 505 3 1224979098644774912 11 1224979098644774917 5 0 545 3 1224979098644774912 11 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 421 1 505 3 1224979098644774912 11 10 3 0 4 0 525 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 11 32 2 1224979098644774918 0 1710 2 0 1224979098644774912 1780 2 1 1224979098644774918 710 3 1224979098644774919 0 1 30 2 1224979098644774919 300 1730 3 1224979098644774912 1 0 5 0 1735 1 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 4 0 505 3 1224979098644774912 5 1 505 3 1224979098644774912 421 1 4 0 545 3 1224979098644774912 11 10 1783 2 1224979098644774912 7 5 0 1783 2 1224979098644774912 8 3 0 3 0 3 0


2) Next, open mission_templates.txt and find all 92 instances of the following piece of code:

33 3 1224979098644774914 1 3


Replace them all with this:

30 2 1224979098644774914 1


Watch for the gaps, as always!

3) Then, find all 10 instances of this trigger:

-71.000000 0.000000 0.000000  16 2071 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 9 2133 2 144115188075857290 1 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 15 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 16 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 17 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 18 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 19 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 20 31 2 1224979098644774912 21 2133 2 144115188075857290 0 3 0  0 


And replace them all with this one:

-71.000000 0.000000 0.000000  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774912 9  1 2133 2 144115188075857290 1 


4) If the trigger to be search for is missing due to another tweak having it removed (e.g. To rework the order to use blunt weapons), then increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - castle hall assaults (21 -> 22)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - town center assaults (21 -> 22)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_camp_review_soldiers - review your soldiers (33 -> 34)
mst_quick_battle_siege - quick battles (sieges) from the main menu (not in use) (25 -> 26)

And add the replacement as a new trigger (in a new line) right under the freshly increased trigger counter for each section. Otherwise, skip this step!

5) Also, find the 3 instances of this trigger:

0.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  16 1107 1 0 1780 2 10 10 6 3 1224979098644774912 0 9 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 1 1790 3 144115188075856381 1224979098644774912 0 1790 3 144115188075856381 1224979098644774912 7 1790 3 144115188075856381 1224979098644774912 7 1790 3 144115188075856383 1224979098644774912 0 1790 3 144115188075856383 1224979098644774912 7 1790 3 144115188075856383 1224979098644774912 7 3 0 1790 3 144115188075856381 1 11 1791 3 144115188075856381 9 10 1790 3 144115188075856383 1 11 1791 3 144115188075856383 9 10 1107 1 1  0 


And replace them with this one:

1.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  24 1107 1 0 1 1 936748722493063533 12 1 1224979098644774912 545 3 1224979098644774912 420 1 525 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 11 32 2 1224979098644774913 0 1780 2 1 1224979098644774913 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 400 2136 3 1224979098644774915 -150 0 720 2 1 1224979098644774914 721 2 1 1224979098644774915 1711 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 9 1790 3 144115188075856381 1224979098644774916 7 1790 3 144115188075856381 1224979098644774916 7 1790 3 144115188075856383 1224979098644774916 7 1790 3 144115188075856383 1224979098644774916 7 3 0 1790 3 144115188075856381 7 0 1790 3 144115188075856383 7 0 1790 3 144115188075856381 8 11 1790 3 144115188075856383 8 11 1107 1 1  0 


Tweak 9 h)

To adjust the requirements needed for the defenders to surrender - credits to Dalion and TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

The defenders in a siege assault may surrender to you if they either run out of food or you have a much superior attacking force. By default, none of these two can be considered as a reasonable or feasible option. Partly because castles and towns have food storages worth of 30 and 100 days respectively, and also because the strength of the garrison (condition D) and the attackers' power (condition A) gets compared in the following way:

If D is less than 4000 points, and the attackers exceed it 3 times (A > D * 3), then the defenders will ask you to let them go in peace. You can accept the offer, and get the town/castle without a fight, and then the defender lord(s) will run out of it and rush away. You can also refuse the offer of course, and then you will be transferred to the usual assault menu
If D is less than 2000 points, and the attackers exceed it 5 times (A > D * 5), then the defenders will surrender without escaping, taking the word of honor from you that they will be treated properly. Again, you can agree, and get the town/castle without a fight, and then the defender lord(s) along with their armies will disappear for a while as if they were defeated by normal means. If you refuse, then you will also be transferred to the siege assault menu

But the catch is that all of this is possible only if D is less than 4000 (which almost never happens). If it's more, then not a single town or castle will surrender under any circumstances, no matter how many times their strength is surpassed, whether they have food, etc. This is not very realistic. What this tweak does is that it removes the value requirement for condition D, so that only the superiority of the attackers will be compared to the defender's strength, as it should be (whether your side is 3 or 5 times stronger than the garrison or not).

Files:

conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) To change the maximum food supply of walled fiefs to be able to starve them out sooner, open scripts.txt and find the following piece of code:

50000 5 0 541 3 1224979098644774912 0 2 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1500


The 50000 is the food supply of towns (they consume 500 unit a day, which is enough for 100 days) and the 1500 is the food supply of castles (they consume 50 unit a day, which is enough for 30 days). Change these values to your liking.

2) To let the defenders actually surrender to a superior attacking force, open conversation.txt and search for these two lines:

dlga_player_siege_ask_surrender:player_siege_ask_surrender_treatment 4095 353  3 2147483678 2 144115188075855903 2000 2122 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855903 5 30 2 144115188075855904 1224979098644774912 Perhaps..._Do_you_give_your_word_of_honor_that_we'll_be_treated_well?  354  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_player_siege_ask_surrender:player_siege_ask_leave_unmolested 4095 353  3 2147483678 2 144115188075855903 4000 2122 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855903 3 30 2 144115188075855904 1224979098644774912 We_are_ready_to_leave_this_castle_to_you_and_march_away_if_you_give_me_your_word_of_honor_that_you'll_let_us_leave_unmolested.  355  0 NO_VOICEOVER


Reduce both numbers of 3 by 1 and delete the parts in blue. You may also want to increase the surpass ratios of 5 and 3 needed to make the enemies consider surrendering to you, as the situation is still not that hopeless on a 1:3 or 1:5 ratio to just surrender without a fight. Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap/space left between the remaining parts. As for other mods, you can find the same conversation lines with a similar structure, but the values of 2000 and 4000 will be surely different. For instance in Native, they are 100 and 200 respectively.

Tweak 9 i)

To add the ability to besiege friendly castles/towns - credits to VonDegurechaff

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

If you attack a friendly castle or town using this tweak as a king/queen, then war will begin with the target faction. If you do the same as a vassal of a kingdom, then there won't be war, but you'll still have relations set to the negatives. It is needed for besieged fiefs to maintain their 'under siege' status as long as they are actually under siege. Otherwise that state would get reset at each day's midnight and you would lose the progress of your siege preparations in case you won't be able to start the assault in time.

Note: keep in mind that if you attempt an attack on a friendly kingdom's castle or town as a vassal, then you won't be able to besiege more of that faction's fiefs until your relation gets repaired to at least 0 by paying for peace or by having a war-peace cycle. Lastly, you may even attack the kingdom you joined. If you succeed with the siege, then you'll automatically create your own kingdom in the end. However, you'll lose all the other fiefs you had.

Now, there will be two mutually exclusive methods offered in this tweak:

the "honest" way - with loss of renown
the "barbaric" way - without the usual penalties

File: menus.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

mno_cheat_town_start_siege  11 31 2 144115188075856146 1 541 3 144115188075856280 54 -1 2147483678 2 144115188075856956 1 1 2 936748722493063355 648518346341351424 32 2 72057594037927936 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 0 3 2133 2 72057594037927942 1 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927942 0 3 0  {!}CHEAT:_Besiege_the_{reg6?town:castle}...  2 2133 2 144115188075856218 144115188075856280 2060 1 864691128455135333


2) To do it the "honest" way, replace it with this:

mno_cheat_town_start_siege  10 541 3 144115188075856280 54 -1 2147483678 2 144115188075856956 1 1 2 936748722493063355 648518346341351424 32 2 72057594037927936 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 0 3 2133 2 72057594037927942 1 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927942 0 3 0  Besiege_the_{reg6?town:castle}...  5 2133 2 144115188075856218 144115188075856280 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 144115188075856957 2110 2 1224979098644774912 -40 1 3 936748722493063446 144115188075856957 1224979098644774912 2060 1 864691128455135333


Make sure that there remains exactly 2 gaps at the start and at the end of the inserted code. The -40 is the relation set with the targeted faction after the attempt. Change it to something else if you so desire, just keep it at the negatives if you want to have a war declaration or to prevent the cancelling of sieges at midnight. In case of other mods, do the following steps:

decrease the counter after mno_cheat_town_start_siege by 1
31 2 144115188075856146 1 -> adjust this piece...
...by replacing 144115188075856146 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
find and delete it from within the mno_cheat_town_start_siege section.
find this piece within the mno_cheat_town_start_siege section: {!}CHEAT:_Besiege_the_{reg6?town:castle}...
increase the counter after it by 3
2133 2 144115188075856218 144115188075856280 -> adjust this piece...
...by replacing 144115188075856218 and 144115188075856280 with the numbers you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_besiege_town and g_encountered_party variables respectively from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
find the now adjusted piece within the mno_cheat_town_start_siege section and add this right after it:
2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 144115188075856957 2110 2 1224979098644774912 -40 1 3 936748722493063446 144115188075856957 1224979098644774912

replace the highlighted numbers as follows:
432345564227567630 with the number you got for: 432345564227567616 + № of fac_player_supporters_faction from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
144115188075856957 (2 instances) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party_faction variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063446 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of set_player_relation_with_faction script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
as always, watch for the gaps!

3) And to do it the "barbaric" way, replace the code found in point 1) with this:

mno_cheat_town_start_siege  14 541 3 144115188075856280 54 -1 2147483678 2 144115188075856956 1 1 2 936748722493063355 648518346341351424 32 2 72057594037927936 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 0 3 2133 2 72057594037927942 1 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927942 0 3 0 4 0 522 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856957 11 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 3 0  Besiege_the_{reg6?town:castle}...  16 2133 2 144115188075856218 144115188075856280 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 144115188075856957 2110 2 1224979098644774912 -30 1 3 936748722493063446 144115188075856957 1224979098644774912 1 1 936748722493063582 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 7 1 3 936748722493063443 1224979098644774913 -30 4 0 31 2 144115188075856294 432345564227567630 1 4 936748722493063454 432345564227567630 144115188075856957 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856294 144115188075856957 1 2 936748722493063551 1 3 0 2060 1 864691128455135333


Make sure that there remains exactly 2 gaps at the start and at the end of the inserted code. The -30 is the relation set with the targeted faction after the attempt and the -30 is the change of relations with the lord owning the targeted fief. Set these values to something else if you so desire, just keep the former one at the negatives if you want to have a war declaration or to prevent the cancelling of sieges at midnight. In case of other mods, do the following steps:

increase the counter after mno_cheat_town_start_siege by 3
31 2 144115188075856146 1 -> adjust this piece...
...by replacing 144115188075856146 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
find and delete it from within the mno_cheat_town_start_siege section.
find this piece within the mno_cheat_town_start_siege section:
2133 2 72057594037927942 0 3 0  {!}CHEAT:_Besiege_the_{reg6?town:castle}...

replace it with this piece:
2133 2 72057594037927942 0 3 0 4 0 522 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856957 11 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 3 0  Besiege_the_{reg6?town:castle}...

adjust the 144115188075856957 as follows: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party_faction variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
increase the counter right after the replacement by 14
2133 2 144115188075856218 144115188075856280 -> adjust this piece...
...by replacing 144115188075856218 and 144115188075856280 with the numbers you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_besiege_town and g_encountered_party variables respectively from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
find the now adjusted piece within the mno_cheat_town_start_siege section and add this right after it:
2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 144115188075856957 2110 2 1224979098644774912 -30 1 3 936748722493063446 144115188075856957 1224979098644774912 1 1 936748722493063582 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 7 1 3 936748722493063443 1224979098644774913 -30 4 0 31 2 144115188075856294 432345564227567630 1 4 936748722493063454 432345564227567630 144115188075856957 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856294 144115188075856957 1 2 936748722493063551 1 3 0

replace the highlighted numbers as follows:
432345564227567630 (3 instances) with the number you got for: 432345564227567616 + № of fac_player_supporters_faction from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
144115188075856957 (4 instances) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party_faction variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063446 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of set_player_relation_with_faction script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063582 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of update_all_notes script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856280 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063443 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_relation_with_troop script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856294 (2 instances) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of players_kingdom variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063454 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of diplomacy_start_war_between_kingdoms script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063551 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of player_leave_faction script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
as always, watch for the gaps!

10. Battles and Fights in General (26)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
10 a) To reassign archers, crossbowmen and arquebusiers to the division of your choice after depleting their ammo
10 b) To reassign infantry with long-range weapons or horses to the 'archers' and 'cavalry' groups respectively
10 c) To fix the error messages appearing from reassignment tweaks
10 d) To make 'Archers' and 'Infantry' divisions stay selectable in the tactical overlay (battle minimap) after getting knocked out
10 e) To update division members dynamically as reassignments happen in the tactical overlay (battle minimap)
10 f) To change the requirements when you can command allied units
10 g) To improve the ammo-borrowing feature
10 h) To be able to set the battlesize below 100 or beyond 530
10 i) To limit the battle advantage
10 j) To change the scaling of damage over distance for ranged weapons
10 k) To allow crouching and bracing spears
10 l) To make overhead spear thrusts more capable
10 m) To rework the order to use blunt weapons
10 n) To enable the advanced formations from With Fire and Sword
10 o) To be able to move through allied troop lines
10 p) To fix chasing allies
10 q) To add the ability to inspire nearby troops with a battlecry
10 r) To recover health, ammo and shield hit points upon leveling up in battles
10 s) To add health regeneration to any battle
10 t) To be able to participate in battles when wounded
10 u) To be able to always join any side in battles
10 v) To allow accessing your inventory upon pressing "I" in various battle/fight scenarios
10 w) To sort the post-battle kill counter of NPCs in descending order
10 x) To remove the losing of items and gold when being taken prisoner
10 y) To change some circumstances about sneaking into enemy walled fiefs
10 z) To disable certain aspects of night ambushes


Tweak 10 a)

To reassign archers, crossbowmen and arquebusiers to the division of your choice after depleting their ammo - credits to Vetrogor and Caba'drin

This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

Upon applying this tweak, a mod option (in-game menu) will be created to choose which division should the out-of-ammo ranged units be reassigned to.

Files:

variables.txt
mission_templates.txt
presentations.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) Open variables.txt and add these 2 entries to the end of the file, as a new line each:

archer_reassign_division
form_options_overlay_26


Make sure to still have an empty line at the very end.

2) Next, open mission_templates.txt. Under the following sections, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)

3) Add the following code (trigger) right under the previously increased counters, as a new line for each section:

-58.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  33 2072 1 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774912 0 1570 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 16 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 17 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 10 31 2 1224979098644774913 9 2071 1 1224979098644774914 1712 1 1224979098644774914 1702 1 1224979098644774914 1707 1 1224979098644774914 1727 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774915 0 1714 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 31 2 1224979098644774916 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1 4 0 1073742365 3 144115188075856280 0 3 541 3 144115188075856280 0 2 1770 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075856381 31 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075856383 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 1773 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774919 9 2147483678 2 1224979098644774919 6 1783 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075857320 505 3 1224979098644774914 46 144115188075857320 3 0 


4) If you DIDN'T add the tweak to reassign dehorsed horse archers to the "archers" group (mst_village_attack_bandits and mst_village_raid) or the tweak to reassign all troops to "infantry" and "archers" during sieges (mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally, mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry and mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder), then once again, increase the trigger counters by 2 under the following sections respectively. Otherwise skip this step:

mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (25 -> 27)
mst_village_raid - village fights (28 -> 30)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (57 -> 59)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (43 -> 45)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (38 -> 40)

For each section, add the following 2 lines (triggers) right under the previously increased counters, as a new line each:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 
1.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  9 12 1 1224979098644774912 1712 1 1224979098644774912 565 3 1224979098644774912 46 0 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 1224979098644774913 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 46 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 3 0 


Don't worry, since siege defenders receive regular ammo refills, the trigger for them won't turn on.

5) Then, open presentations.txt and find this piece:

-60.000000  632 902 1 999999


Increase that 632 by 41 (632 -> 673), then find this piece:

910 3 72057594037927937 1585267068834414767 8


And replace it with this:

910 3 72057594037927937 1585267068834417731 8 729 2 1 900 730 2 1 900 925 2 72057594037927937 1 730 2 0 1224979098644774912 926 2 72057594037927937 0 916 1 144115188075857321 729 2 2 700 730 2 2 700 925 2 144115188075857321 2 2133 2 72057594037927937 9 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 2106 2 72057594037927937 1 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 2106 2 72057594037927937 1 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 2106 2 72057594037927937 1 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 2106 2 72057594037927937 1 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 2106 2 72057594037927937 1 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 2106 2 72057594037927937 2 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 2106 2 72057594037927937 1 931 2 144115188075857321 216172782113783817 700 2 1 0 2120 3 72057594037927938 1224979098644774912 0 730 2 1 72057594037927938 726 2 1224979098644774913 1 2105 2 1224979098644774913 91 729 2 1 1224979098644774913 926 2 144115188075857321 1 2133 2 72057594037927937 8 2106 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857320 4 0 2147483680 2 144115188075857320 1 2106 2 72057594037927937 1 3 0 927 2 144115188075857321 72057594037927937 2106 2 1224979098644774912 31 910 3 72057594037927937 1585267068834414767 8


Watch for the gaps!

6) Still in the same trigger under prsnt_mod_options, find this piece:

2133 2 1224979098644774912 790


And replace that 790 with 830.

7) Next, find this piece:

-62.000000  196 2071 1 1224979098644774912


Increase that 196 by 8 (196 -> 204), then find this piece:

2133 2 144115188075857298 10 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857297 100 3 0 5 0


And replace it with this:

2133 2 144115188075857298 10 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857297 100 3 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857321 2121 3 1224979098644774913 8 1224979098644774913 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774913 1 2106 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075857320 1224979098644774913 5 0


As always, watch for the gaps!

8) Then, open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter at the top of the file by 1 (3139 -> 3140), and put this string to the end of the file (as a new line):

qstr_Reassign_archers_wit Reassign_archers_with_empty_ammo_to_division_


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end of the file!

9) Lastly, make sure that the instances of 144115188075857320, 144115188075857321 and 1585267068834417731 match the formulas down below. It is only needed to check them if you added something else to variables.txt and quick_strings.txt respectively due different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

144115188075857320 (point 3), 2 instances; point 5), 2 instances; point 7) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of archer_reassign_division variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857321 (point 5), 12 instances, point 7) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of form_options_overlay_26 variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 (point 5) with the number you get for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_Reassign_archers_wit in quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 10 b)

To reassign infantry with long-range weapons or horses to the 'archers' and 'cavalry' groups respectively - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

There are some infantry units that may have, but are not guaranteed with bows or crossbows, such as: Sellswords, Mercenary Highlanders, Melitine Free Brothers, Barclay Aventuriers, D'Shar Conscript, D'Shar Tribesmen, D'Shar Hunters, D'Shar Desert Fighters, Shadow Hunters. You can't use these troops nor as a proper infantry, nor as proper ranged troops, because both will be under the same division, which is a shame. Likewise, there are some infantry units that may have horses, such as Queen Agnus Freebooters or Highwaymen. With this tweak, these units will be divided into separate divisions accordingly. As a sideeffect, dismounted/dehorsed cavalry will stay in their own group. This isn't a bad thing, as it will allow them to find a new horse to ride and continue fighting on horseback.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 20)

2) For each section, add the following line (trigger) right under the previously increased counters, as a new line each:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  16 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774913 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 30 2 1224979098644774916 1 1570 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 17 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 8 31 2 1224979098644774917 9 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1  3 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 1 


3) Then, increase the trigger counter by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)

4) And for each section, add the following trigger right under the previously increased counters, as a new line each:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912  31 2071 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 31 2 1224979098644774913 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 30 2 1224979098644774916 1 1570 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 9 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 16 31 2 1224979098644774917 17 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 1 3 0 4 0 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 1715 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774918 0 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774918 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 1783 2 1224979098644774918 2 505 3 1224979098644774918 46 2 3 0 


5) If you DIDN'T add the tweak to reassign dehorsed horse archers to the "archers" group and change their lances to shorter melee weapons, then decrease the trigger counter by 3 under mst_lead_charge (67 -> 64) and delete the following 3 triggers. Otherwise skip this step:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 
-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  12 2071 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 1715 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 -1 3 0 505 3 1224979098644774912 45 1224979098644774913 
-26.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  13 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2147485352 1 1224979098644774912 525 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 45 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1712 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1707 1 1224979098644774913 1745 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1746 3 1224979098644774913 -2 1 1735 1 1224979098644774913 1732 1 1224979098644774913 1783 2 1224979098644774913 0 505 3 1224979098644774913 46 0 


6) Lastly, check if the following trigger can already be found under mst_village_attack_bandits, mst_village_raid, mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally, mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry and mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder:

1.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  9 12 1 1224979098644774912 1712 1 1224979098644774912 565 3 1224979098644774912 46 0 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 1224979098644774913 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 46 1783 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 3 0 


If not, then once again, for each section that has it missing, increase the trigger counter by 1, and add the above trigger right under the increased counters, as a new line each. Likewise in case of other mods!

Tweak 10 c)

To fix the error messages appearing from reassignment tweaks - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak should be applied along with any of Vetrogor's reassignment tweaks!
Point 4) of this tweak is mutually exclusive with any other tweak portion that touches the siege_move_archers_to_archer_positions script!
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

Mount and Blade Warband puts troops automatically into divisions based on their guarantee flags, regardless of their actual equipment. If a different reassignment happens from tweaks, then errors may occur when the game engine is trying to call for the agent_get_class function (operation #1772). This tweak fixes any of such issues, including the error messages popping up when a horse archer unit gets dehorsed.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the script called team_get_class_percentages and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 5 (46 -> 51). Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918


Replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774918 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774918 46 1224979098644774921 525 3 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918 46 3 0


2) Then, find the script called simulate_battle_with_agents_aux and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 10 (99 -> 109). Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774915


Replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774915 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774915 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774915 46 1224979098644774922 525 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774915 46 3 0


Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774917


And replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774917 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774917 46 1224979098644774922 525 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774917 46 3 0


3) Next, find the script called cf_siege_assign_men_to_belfry and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 5 (179 -> 184). Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774922


Replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774922 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774922 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774922 46 1224979098644774928 525 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774922 46 3 0


4) Then, find the script called siege_move_archers_to_archer_positions and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 10 (64 -> 74) (this script is different in other mods, better skip it). Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912


Replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 1224979098644774914 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 46 3 0


Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916


And replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774916 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774916 46 1224979098644774917 525 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 46 3 0


5) Now find the script called classify_agent and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 10 (12 -> 22) (this script does not exist in other mods!). Then find this piece:

1773 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912


Replace it with this:

1773 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 72057594037927936 525 3 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 46 3 0


Then find this piece:

1772 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912


And replace it with this:

1772 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 46 72057594037927936 525 3 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 46 3 0


6) Lastly, find the script called team_field_melee_tactics and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 15 (1011 -> 1026) (this script doesn't exist in other mods!). Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774927


Replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774927 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774927 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774927 46 1224979098644774929 525 3 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774927 46 3 0


Then find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774937 1224979098644774935


And replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774937 1224979098644774935 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774935 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774935 46 1224979098644774937 525 3 1224979098644774937 1224979098644774935 46 3 0


Finally, find this piece:

1772 2 1224979098644774963 1224979098644774940


And replace it with this:

1772 2 1224979098644774963 1224979098644774940 4 0 2147484193 3 1224979098644774940 46 -1 2147484193 3 1224979098644774940 46 1224979098644774963 525 3 1224979098644774963 1224979098644774940 46 3 0


As always, watch for the gaps!

Tweak 10 d)

To make 'Archers' and 'Infantry' divisions stay selectable in the tactical overlay (battle minimap) after getting knocked out - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

When you have some allies in battle that you can normally command, but you get knocked out with no more units left on your side that belong to the 'Archers' or 'Infantry' group, then you won't be able to command the remaining infantry and archer units on your ally's side. And this can also happen when units changed divisions in the meantime due to reassignments (from other tweaks). With this tweak, that will no longer be the case.

File: presentations.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

2133 2 144115188075856800 0 2133 2 144115188075856801 0


2) And change both 0 to 1. Then find this piece:

2133 2 144115188075856809 0


3) And change the 0 to 2. In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust both pieces from point 1) & 2) as follows in order to find them. So replace:

144115188075856800 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group0_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856801 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group1_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856809 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of num_classes variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 10 e)

To update division members dynamically as reassignments happen in the tactical overlay (battle minimap) - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

File: presentations.txt

1) Find this trigger:

-60.000000  626 2124 1 1000


Increase that 626 by 1 (626 -> 627)

2) Then find this piece:

1650 2 1224979098644774915 648518346341351424 2133 2 144115188075856809 0 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774915 1652 3 1224979098644774917 648518346341351424 1224979098644774916 1516 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774917 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 0 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856800 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856800 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 1 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856801 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856801 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 2 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856802 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856802 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 3 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856803 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856803 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 4 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856804 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856804 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 5 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856805 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856805 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 6 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856806 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856806 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 7 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856807 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856807 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 8 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856808 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856808 1 3 0 3 0


And replace it with this:

2133 2 144115188075856809 0 12 1 1224979098644774915 1707 1 1224979098644774915 1702 1 1224979098644774915 1704 1 1224979098644774915 1706 1 1224979098644774915 1773 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856800 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856800 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 1 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856801 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856801 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 2 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856802 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856802 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 3 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856803 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856803 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 4 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856804 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856804 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 5 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856805 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856805 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 6 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856806 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856806 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 7 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856807 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856807 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 8 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856808 1 2105 2 144115188075856809 1 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856808 1 3 0 3 0


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains to the left and right of the replacement!

3) If you have applied the tweak to make 'Archers' and 'Infantry' divisions stay selectable in the tactical overlay (battle minimap) after getting knocked out, then you will need to change the 0 to a 2 in the previous point to even find the piece to be searched for and have a correct replacement. If you don't do this, then graphical issues will occur to the tactical overlay. Otherwise, if you haven't applied the aforementioned tweak (yet), then skip this step!

4) In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the pieces from point 2) as follows, in order to find it and have a correct replacement. So, replace:

144115188075856809 (10 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of num_classes variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856800 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group0_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856801 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group1_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856802 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group2_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856803 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group3_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856804 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group4_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856805 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group5_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856806 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group6_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856807 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group7_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856808 (2 instances in both pieces) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of group8_has_troops variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 10 f)

To change the requirements when you can command allied units - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too!

File: scripts.txt

1) Find these pieces of code under the script called agent_reassign_team:

2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 648518346341351424 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1

8 360287970189639680 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0

2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 3 0


2) Change that 1 to 0 and you'll always be in command, even if you're not the marshall. Or, if you want to have allies who command themselves (with the AI) even if you are the marshall, then leave that 1 alone and change that 0 to 1 instead. Additionally, you may also change that 0 to 1 if you want even lordless parties to use the AI instead of your orders.

Tweak 10 g)

To improve the ammo-borrowing feature - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

This tweak makes the following changes:

units assigned to the 'archers' division will be reassigned to the 'infantry' group after giving you their remaining ammo
changed the "borrow ammo" command button to 'V' instead of 'O' for a better reach with your left hand
the distance from which you can borrow ammo gets doubled
included bullets too in the trigger (for the Arquebus)
now you can borrow ammunition from your allies too (previously it was possible only from your own units)

Files:

mission_templates.txt
(variables.txt)

1) Find the 3 instances of the trigger that starts with this piece:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  1 71 1 24  116 1700 1 1224979098644774912


2) Replace them all with this:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  1 71 1 47  176 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1726 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 0 1570 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 9 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 16 31 2 1224979098644774914 17 1710 2 5 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774915 -1 12 1 1224979098644774916 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774916 1704 1 1224979098644774916 1706 1 1224979098644774916 1726 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 0 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 31 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 1710 2 1 1224979098644774916 710 3 1224979098644774919 1 5 5 0 1710 2 2 1224979098644774916 710 3 1224979098644774920 2 5 2147483678 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774919 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774920 3 0 3 0 32 2 1224979098644774915 -1 2147483678 2 1224979098644774919 200 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 16 31 2 1224979098644774914 17 2133 2 1224979098644774921 18 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 8 2133 2 1224979098644774921 5 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 6 3 0 1977 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 0 1977 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774912 1 1977 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774912 2 1977 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774912 3 1728 1 1224979098644774912 1977 3 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774912 0 1977 3 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774912 1 1977 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774912 2 1977 3 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774912 3 2133 2 1224979098644774930 0 6 3 1224979098644774931 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774931 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 1570 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774921 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774931 0 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774926 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774931 1 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774927 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774931 2 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774928 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774925 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774929 3 0 2121 3 1224979098644774934 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774932 2105 2 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774934 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774935 0 6 3 1224979098644774931 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774931 30 2 1224979098644774917 1 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 31 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774921 1977 3 1224979098644774936 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774931 2105 2 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774936 3 0 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774935 6 3 1224979098644774931 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774931 30 2 1224979098644774917 1 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774921 1776 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774917 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 1774 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774931 3 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774937 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774937 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 1570 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774921 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774937 0 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774926 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774937 1 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774927 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774937 2 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774928 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774925 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774929 3 0 2121 3 1224979098644774938 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774932 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774938 1776 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774933 2106 2 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774938 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774935 1776 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774932 3 0 3 0 1773 2 1224979098644774939 1224979098644774915 31 2 1224979098644774939 1 1783 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075857206 505 3 1224979098644774915 46 144115188075857207 5 0 6 3 1224979098644774937 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774937 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 1570 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774921 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774937 0 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774926 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774937 1 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774927 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774937 2 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774928 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774925 2133 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774929 3 0 2121 3 1224979098644774934 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774932 1776 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774933 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774931 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774931 30 2 1224979098644774917 1 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 31 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774921 1977 3 1224979098644774936 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774931 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774936 1776 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774917 0 2106 2 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774936 5 0 2106 2 1224979098644774936 1224979098644774930 1776 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774936 3 0 3 0 3 0 


The highlighted blue number at the start of both the original and replaced instances (3-3 each) is the hotkey assigned, where 24 stands for 'O' and 47 stands for 'V'. Feel free to change them! To assist you, here's a table with the possible hotkey codes: https://i77.servimg.com/u/f77/19/75/99/36/tweakb10.png

3) To add this reworked ammo-borrowing feature to other mods as well, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges

For each section, add the line (trigger) from point 2) right under the previously increased counters, as a new line. Next, open variables.txt and add this entry to the end of the file, as a new line:

placeholder


Make sure to still have an empty line at the very end! Rename it at your will, the variable's name doesn't matter. Last but not least, adjust the single instance of 144115188075857207 above to match with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of placeholder variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++).

Tweak 10 h)

To be able to set the battlesize below 100 or beyond 530 - credits to Dalion, margarin and VonDegurechaff

Files:

module.ini
mission_templates.txt
rgl_config.txt

1) To decrease the battlesize below 100, firstly open module.ini and find this line:

battle_size_min = 100


Change that 100 to 30

30 is needed as the base of calculations for further tweaking

Then open mission_templates.txt and look for the following pieces of code with the 2 specific numbers for each battle type. Blue - defenders, Red - attackers

For number of soldiers in field battles, find these lines under mst_lead_charge:

4 1 4160 0 16 40 0
0 4160 0 16 0 0
4 8320 0 16 40 0
4 8320 0 16 0 0


Set 20 and 20

For number of soldiers in sally-outs, find these lines under mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally:

4 0 8320 256 16 32 0
0 8320 256 16 0 0
3 4160 256 16 40 0
3 4160 256 16 0 0


Set 17 and 25

For number of soldiers in ladder-sieges, find these lines under mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder:

12 0 8320 256 16 32 0
0 8320 256 16 0 0
10 4160 256 16 0 0
11 4160 256 16 30 0
15 4160 256 16 0 0


Set 8 and 7

For number of soldiers in siege tower sieges, find these lines under mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry:

13 0 8320 256 16 32 0
0 8320 256 16 0 0
10 4160 256 16 0 0
11 4160 256 16 28 0
15 4160 256 16 0 0


Set 8 and 7

For number of soldiers in village battles, find these lines under mst_village_raid:

4 3 4160 256 16 30 0
3 4160 256 16 0 0
1 8320 256 16 30 0
1 8320 256 16 0 0


Set 21 and 21

Now the only thing left is to increase the threshold for reinforcements in order to not have them appear constantly. Once again in mission_templates.txt, Blue will be for the defenders, and Red will be for the attackers. Search for the following pieces of code for each battle type and halve all the highlighted numbers in the end. The lower the number, the higher the threshold for calling reinforcements gets:

Field battles - mst_lead_charge:

2385 2 1224979098644774918 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 20

2385 2 1224979098644774913 1 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 20



Ladder and siege tower sieges - mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder and mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry:

2385 2 1224979098644774913 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 30

2385 2 1224979098644774913 1 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 25


Village battles - mst_village_raid:

2385 2 1224979098644774913 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 12

2385 2 1224979098644774913 1 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 12



2) To increase the battlesize beyond 530, open rgl_config.txt under your Documents folder (e.g. C:\Users\...\Documents\Mount&Blade Warband\) and find this entry:

battle_size = 1.0000


The highlighted value is for controlling the amount of troops allowed to spawn, at the expense of pushing the in-game battle size slider beyond the limits visually. By default, the battle_size value equals 1.0000 and switching to any other mod will reset it to 1.0000 again. Battle size changers (e.g. https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php?threads/warband-battle-size-changer-v1-5.103109/) adjust this value from the background, but lock it to be constant, regardless of which mod you play. By itself, battle_size is a multiplier for (battle_size_max - battle_size_min), on top of battle_size_min, setting your in-game battle size slider to the resulting value. If you touch the slider in-game, it will go back to the value set for battle_size_max and you would need to relaunch the game to set it back where it was. The total amount of troops allowed to spawn will be less however until the battle advantage stays in the [-12;12] range. You can set the latter values in module.ini (if the entries are not there, you can add them). Also, note that increasing the value of battle_size_max = 530 on its own in there won't change your battesize any further, it is only for visuals past 420 (see the fix for this mismatch under section 8).

Now for an example to hopefully clear any confusion. If battle_size_min = 100 and battle_size_max = 1000 in your module.ini, and then you set battle_size = 8.0000 in rgl_config.txt, then your showcased in-game battle size will become 100 + 8*(1000-100) = 7300. And indeed: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1681518722985925409/BD42B76768DDCF0C35964CD76795DA85658D2204/?imw=5000&imh=5000&ima=fit&impolicy=Letterbox&imcolor=%23000000&letterbox=false

The total amount of troops allowed to spawn will be less than that, but still in the several thousands. God bless your CPU if you decide to do so :D https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1681518722985924810/B922AFF62C0B7F74969679858B14365516AC6B80/?imw=5000&imh=5000&ima=fit&impolicy=Letterbox&imcolor=%23000000&letterbox=false

Back to the previous example, if you would change battle_size to become 0.0000, then your showcased in-game battle size will become 100 + 0*(1000-100) = 100.

Tweak 10 i)

To limit the battle advantage - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

Are you tired of losing because the enemy outnumbers your party so much in a field battle that only a few of your men are allowed to spawn in at a time? Well, with this tweak, that will be no longer the case, regardless of your Tactics skill! After applying the changes down below, as long as both sides have enough troops to fill the set battlesize, you won't have less troops present in a battle than half of what the enemy spawns with. It is only fair, since if you are the one to outnumber the enemy, you won't be able to have more than two times of their men present at a time, no matter what (it's an engine limitation). As for sieges, the ratio set will always be in favor of the defenders. When allied troops are present as well, your side well be split according to the following formula: (player_troops / player_+_allied_troops) ± random(15%)

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the script called calculate_battle_advantage, and increase the operation counter at the beginning of its body by 2 (28 -> 30)

2) Then find this piece of code:

2106 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774916 2108 2 1224979098644774918 100


3) And insert this piece right after it:

2111 2 1224979098644774918 -5 2110 2 1224979098644774918 5


4) Watch for the gaps, so that there is one at the start and at the end of the inserted piece! The -5 is the lowest battle disdvantage and the 5 is the highest battle advantage value set for your side, depending on if you are the one to be outnumbered, or you outnumber the enemy. These are the equivalent of the aforementioned 2:1 ratio. You can change these two values if you don't find them to your liking. Note as a reminder however, that a battle advantage of 5 is the highest possible value, the game won't allow for more to apply.

Tweak 10 j)

To change the scaling of damage over distance for ranged weapons - credits to lconracl

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

If you want to make archers and crossbow users weaker across the board, then this is the tweak for you!

File: module.ini

1) Find this line:

missile_damage_speed_power = 1.2


It affects how the damage of projectiles gets reduced at longer ranges. At point blank range however, the damage will be the same, so you'll have to change the given weapon's raw damage to tweak ranged damage from that aspect.

This constant can be:

reduced = more average damage
increased = less average damage

The maximum value is 2.0 and lowest value tested is 0.1. Before we go further in detail, it's worth to note that missile speed is somewhat inversely proportional to the distance:

2.0 makes the damage scale downwards with the square of missile speed
1.0 makes the damage scale downwards linearly with missile speed

An example of what the above means: 100 Dragon Drakes are attacking a double line of 100 D'Shar Ghazi Marksmen. How many Drakes are able to reach the line of Marksmen with the different missile_damage_speed_power values set?

0.1 = 4
1.2 = 11
2.0 = 25

2) Change that 1.2 to your liking. The native setting is 1.9 if you'd like to know.

Tweak 10 k)

To allow crouching and bracing spears

This tweak will allow the player, crossbow users and units with braceable polearms to crouch and brace those polearms automatically:

The player has to equip an adequate polearm (halberds, longer spears and pikes) and crouch with it. Then the animation will shortly switch automatically to that of bracing one. You can aim the tip of the polearm with your mouse after the bracing animation takes place. Braced polearms deal massive damage to incoming cavalry units and their horses when they charge at full speed (often one-shots the horse or the rider if the speed difference is enough)
In case of AI units with braceable polearms, they will crouch and brace automatically after standing still for a few seconds. However, note that in a formation that consists of several rows, only the 1st line of polearm-wielders will crouch and brace. The rest of units behind them will stand. Forming a single line will result in nobody bracing spears. Also, note that formations often tend to rotate to face the bulk of the enemy lines, meaning that until the enemy decides to charge straight into you, your halberdiers/pikemen will often stand up, move a bit, and crouch again.
The same applies to crossbow users controlled by the AI. Only the 1st line will crouch, the rest will stand.

File: module.ini

1) Find this line:

can_crouch = 0


2) And change that 0 to 1

3) You can set the key for crouching among the Controls ('z' by default) in the game after making the above change and starting up the mod

Tweak 10 l)

To make overhead spear thrusts more capable - credits to Weids

With this tweak, you'll be able to land hits with overhead thrusts at face-hugging ranges, applying to both one-handed and two-handed spears. Spearmen controlled by the AI will also become much more capable at close-quarter combat as a result. A sideeffect is that overhead thrusts will happen at a fixed height.

For balance reasons, the speed of overhead trusts are lowered a bit to make them slower than normal thrusts. The time it takes to prepare overhead thrusts is increased a bit as well, bringing them somewhat on par with normal thrusts. This will give players on manual blocking some time to react, since these attack types will deal damage now.

File: actions.txt

1) Find the entries of ready_overswing_spear, release_overswing_spear, ready_overswing_musket, release_overswing_musket, release_overswing_musket_continue, parried_overswing_musket and blocked_overswing_musket, then replace them with these respectively (animation entry and trigger pairs):

 ready_overswing_spear 524288 1679818762  1
  0.400000 attacks_staff_thrust_overhead 6 21 7 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
 release_overswing_spear 524288 2183135242  1
  0.500000 attacks_staff_thrust_overhead 21 43 6 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 

 ready_overswing_musket 524288 1679818762  1
  0.400000 1h_spear_thrust_overhead 6 21 7 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
 release_overswing_musket 524288 2183135242  1
  0.500000 1h_spear_thrust_overhead 21 43 6 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
 release_overswing_musket_continue 0 572522497  1
  0.300000 1h_spear_thrust_overhead 43 50 3 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
 parried_overswing_musket 0 35651599  1
  0.300000 1h_spear_thrust_overhead 50 43 3 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
 blocked_overswing_musket 0 35651599  1
  0.300000 1h_spear_thrust_overhead 50 43 3 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 


2) Watch for the gaps, so that there is 1 at the start of each named entry, and 2 before each trigger below them! So just follow the structure of any other similar line.

Tweak 10 m)

To rework the order to use blunt weapons - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

After applying this tweak, every troop will get a blunt weapon when ordered to use one. The order will work the same way from the tactical overlay (battle minimap) as well. After that, when you order "Use weapons at will", then all original weapons will be given back. A blunt weapon gets chosen from the given troop's inventory by default. If that troop doesn't have one, than if its Strength and Level is greater than or equal to 12 and 35 respectively, it will get a Battle Hammer (288230376151713049). Otherwise a Mace (288230376151712986) will be given to such units.

Files:

variables.txt
ui.csv
scripts.txt
mission_templates.txt
presentations.txt

1) Open variables.txt and add this entry to the end of the file, as a new line:

weapon_order


Make sure to still have an empty line at the very end!

2) Next, open ui.csv at languages\en\ within PoP's module, and find the following entries:

ui_order_button_use_blunt_weapons|Prefer blunt weapons

ui_use_blunt_weapons_e_|%s, prefer blunt weapons!


Replace them respectively with these:

ui_order_button_use_blunt_weapons|Use only blunt weapons

ui_use_blunt_weapons_e_|%s, use only blunt weapons!


3) Then, open scripts.txt and increase the counter found in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (754 -> 755), then add the following piece to the end of the file, as two new lines:

blunt_weapons_order -1
 107 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1770 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 144115188075857320 9 12 1 1224979098644774914 1702 1 1224979098644774914 1704 1 1224979098644774914 1706 1 1224979098644774914 1707 1 1224979098644774914 1773 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1775 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 2147484193 3 1224979098644774914 15 1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 4 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774916 1804 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774917 32 2 1224979098644774918 0 1570 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 2133 2 1224979098644774920 -1 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774919 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774919 3 31 2 1224979098644774919 4 2719 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918 1073741855 2 1224979098644774921 -1 31 2 1224979098644774921 2 2721 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774918 1073741855 2 1224979098644774922 -1 31 2 1224979098644774922 2 2133 2 1224979098644774920 2 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774920 2 2133 2 1224979098644774916 -1 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 4 1726 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774914 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774923 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774923 3 0 505 3 1224979098644774914 107 1224979098644774923 1718 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774914 2172 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774924 0 2171 2 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774927 288230376151712986 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774925 12 30 2 1224979098644774926 35 2133 2 1224979098644774927 288230376151713049 3 0 4 0 1507 1 1224979098644774924 5 0 1540 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774929 0 2133 2 1224979098644774930 0 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774928 1541 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774917 32 2 1224979098644774918 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 2133 2 1224979098644774920 -1 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774919 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774919 3 31 2 1224979098644774919 4 2719 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918 1073741855 2 1224979098644774921 -1 31 2 1224979098644774921 2 2721 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774918 1073741855 2 1224979098644774922 -1 31 2 1224979098644774922 2 2133 2 1224979098644774920 2 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774920 2 500 3 360287970189639683 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774918 2105 2 1224979098644774929 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774930 1 2136 3 1224979098644774931 0 1224979098644774929 520 3 1224979098644774927 360287970189639683 1224979098644774931 3 0 1779 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774927 1747 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774927 3 0 3 0 5 0 31 2 144115188075857320 10 12 1 1224979098644774914 1702 1 1224979098644774914 1704 1 1224979098644774914 1706 1 1224979098644774914 1707 1 1224979098644774914 1773 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1775 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 2147484193 3 1224979098644774914 15 1 525 3 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774914 107 32 2 1224979098644774927 0 1726 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774914 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774923 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774923 3 0 1779 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774927 1747 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774927 505 3 1224979098644774914 107 0 3 0 3 0 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

4) Now open mission_templates.txt. Under the following sections, decrease the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 65)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 23)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 26)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - castle hall assaults (21 -> 20)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - town center assaults (21 -> 20)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 55)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 41)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 36)
mst_camp_review_soldiers - review your soldiers (33 -> 32)
mst_quick_battle_siege - quick battles (sieges) from the main menu (not in use) (25 -> 24)

5) From each section, delete the following 2 triggers:

-71.000000 0.000000 0.000000  16 2071 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 9 2133 2 144115188075857290 1 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 13 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 15 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 16 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 17 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 18 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 19 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 20 31 2 1224979098644774912 21 2133 2 144115188075857290 0 3 0  0 
3.000000 3.000000 0.000000  15 31 2 144115188075857290 1 1107 1 0 12 1 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1706 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 15 1 1726 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774913 -1 1770 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1773 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1790 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 10 3 0 1107 1 1  16 12 1 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1706 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912 2147484193 3 1224979098644774912 15 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 4 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1804 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 2721 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 31 2 1224979098644774916 2 1747 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 2133 2 1224979098644774913 -1 3 0 3 0 


And add this trigger in form of a new line in place of them:

-71.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  5 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 10 31 2 1224979098644774912 9 2133 2 144115188075857320 1224979098644774912 1 1 936748722493063922 


6) Next, open presentations.txt and find this piece:

-62.000000  832 2071 1 1224979098644774912


Increase that 832 by 4 (832 -> 836), then find this piece:

1 3 936748722493063537 1224979098644774914 10


Replace it with this:

1 3 936748722493063537 1224979098644774914 10 2133 2 144115188075857320 10 1 1 936748722493063922


Then find this piece:

1 3 936748722493063537 1224979098644774914 9


And replace it with this:

1 3 936748722493063537 1224979098644774914 9 2133 2 144115188075857320 9 1 1 936748722493063922


7) Lastly, make sure that the instances of 144115188075857320 and 936748722493063922 match the formulas down below. It is only needed to check them if you added something else to variables.txt and scripts.txt respectively, due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

144115188075857320 (point 3), 2 instances; point 5); point 6), 2 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of weapon_order variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063922 (scripts.txt, point 5); point 6), 2 instances): 936748722493063168 + № of blunt_weapons_order script from point 3 (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 10 n)

To enable the advanced formations from With Fire and Sword

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

This tweak will allow you to give the following orders to your troops as an extra on top of the default ones.

Use melee weapons!
Use ranged weapons!
Fire at my command:
Fire!
All volley fire!
Left flank volley fire!
Middle group volley fire!
Right flank volley fire!
Form 1 row!
Form 2 rows!
Form 3 rows!
Form 4 rows!
Form 5 rows!

Note that your F1-F4 command menu will be rearranged a bit. Also, beware that the volley-fire orders are not automatic, meaning that you have to reissue the command for each volley. Otherwise your ranged troops will hold fire indefinitely.

File: module.ini

1) Find this line:

use_advanced_formation = 0


2) And change that 0 to 1

Tweak 10 o)

To be able to move through allied troop lines - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

Do I even have to explain how frustrating it can be to get blocked by allied units? Getting past allied lines in field battles or crowded blobs in sieges is a pain in the arse. Enemy troops? You can kill them and pass. Your own troops? You can order them to go 10 steps backwards. But allied troops will ruin your plans no matter what... Well, not anymore. With this tweak, any non-hostile troops nearby will spread out to let you pass through, as long as you hold left [Ctrl] while moving.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 20)

2) For each section, right under the previously increased counter, add the following trigger in form of a new line:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  2 2147484654 0 70 1 29  24 2124 1 1 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1710 2 1 1224979098644774912 1770 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 12 3 1224979098644774914 1 1 1702 1 1224979098644774914 1704 1 1224979098644774914 1707 1 1224979098644774914 1770 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 2147485436 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 1689 2 2 1224979098644774912 727 2 1224979098644774916 2 726 2 1224979098644774917 2 2130 1 1224979098644774916 2130 1 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 0 2108 2 1224979098644774916 2 3 0 2108 2 1224979098644774917 2 721 2 1 1224979098644774916 720 2 1 1224979098644774917 1711 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 


Tweak 10 p)

To fix chasing allies - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

When you shoot an allied unit by accident, it may start facehugging you in battles, as if your were an enemy. Upon doing so, they ignore any orders and their true enemies, and stand close enough to even interrupt your aim. That can be really disturbing if you don't want to or can't take the given unit down. With the help of this tweak, you'll be able to fix such behaviours by kicking the bugged troop. Furthermore, this method can also be used to bring floating allies in siege tower sieges to the ground.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Open mission_templates.txt and under the following sections, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 20)
mst_arena_melee_fight - arena fights (18 -> 19)

2) For each section, add the following trigger in form of a new line right under the previously increased trigger counter:

0.000000 0.000000 1.000000  2 2147484654 0 71 1 18  19 1700 1 1224979098644774912 12 1 1224979098644774913 1704 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 1710 2 8 1224979098644774913 793 2 1224979098644774914 8 722 2 8 1224979098644774914 1711 2 1224979098644774913 8 1710 2 9 1224979098644774912 711 3 1224979098644774915 9 8 2147483680 2 1224979098644774915 2 1707 1 1224979098644774913 1706 1 1224979098644774913 2080 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1735 1 1224979098644774913 505 3 1224979098644774913 4 0 1732 1 1224979098644774913 3 0 


Tweak 10 q)

To add the ability to inspire nearby troops with a battlecry - credits to Dalion and Vetrogor

With this tweak, each time you press the "T" key in battle, you will do a winning cheer. As a result, all allied troops within a radius of 30m around you will:

stop running at the moment of pressing the button
issue the same battlecry/cheer as you
get +5 to combat morale for each activation of the battlecry (not the same as troop morale!)

So now you can shout for fun and also to get the cowards (who tried to flee) back into battle.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - castle hall assaults (21 -> 22)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - town center assaults (21 -> 22)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 20)

2) Add the following code (trigger) in a new line right under the increased trigger counter for each section:

0.000000 1.000000 3.000000  10 71 1 20 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1740 3 1224979098644774912 1801439850948198842 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856152 0 1750 2 1224979098644774912 1152921504606847332 5 0 1750 2 1224979098644774912 1152921504606847108 3 0  27 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1770 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1710 2 10 1224979098644774912 12 1 1224979098644774914 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774914 1704 1 1224979098644774914 1770 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 31 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 1710 2 11 1224979098644774914 711 3 1224979098644774916 10 11 2147483680 2 1224979098644774916 30 1752 1 1224979098644774914 1740 3 1224979098644774914 1801439850948198842 1 1718 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 1506 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 0 1750 2 1224979098644774914 1152921504606847332 5 0 1750 2 1224979098644774914 1152921504606847108 3 0 525 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 16 2105 2 1224979098644774919 5 2110 2 1224979098644774919 9600 505 3 1224979098644774914 16 1224979098644774919 3 0


There may be some other scenes/battles where you want to add this tweak, like to night ambushes (although those are rather small battles). Feel free to do so if you want, by following the above pattern.

Tweak 10 r)

To recover health, ammo and shield hit points upon leveling up in battles - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Usually in RPG games upon an increase in level, your health, mana, etc., replenishes. With this tweak, if you level up during battles, you will recover:

your health
your horse's health, if you got the level up while riding
all ammunition slots, even if they are different
shield hit points, but only the one that you hold in your hand at the time you level up (game restriction)

The notification message about the restoration appears only if the player has advanced a level, but all other heroes are subject to the effect as well - from your companions to enemy lords and unique spawn leaders. It is worth noting that the tweak is not triggered if you get a level up on the world map or inside normal scenes.

Files:

quick_strings.txt
mission_templates.txt

1) Open quick_strings.txt, and increase the counter at the top by 1 (3139 -> 3140)

2) At the very end of the file, add the following as a new line:

qstr_Health_shield_and_am Health,_shield_and_ammo_recovered!


3) Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file

4) Open mission_templates.txt and increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 2 under the following sections:

mst_bandits_at_night - night ambushes (9 -> 11)
mst_sneak_caught_fight - getting caught by guards upon sneaking in (13 -> 15)
mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 68)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 26)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 29)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - castle hall assaults (21 -> 23)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - town center assaults (21 -> 23)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 58)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 44)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 39)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 21)
mst_arena_melee_fight - arena fights (18 -> 20)

5) Add the following codes (triggers) in a new line each right under the increased trigger counter for each section:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  6 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1507 1 1224979098644774913 2171 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 505 3 1224979098644774912 99 1224979098644774914 
0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  22 12 1 1224979098644774912 1700 1 1224979098644774913 1718 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1507 1 1224979098644774914 2171 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 525 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 99 31 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1 4 0 4 0 1714 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 -1 1721 2 1224979098644774917 100 3 0 1721 2 1224979098644774912 100 1692 1 1224979098644774912 1728 1 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 1106 2 1585267068834417731 11336280 3 0 505 3 1224979098644774912 99 1224979098644774915 3 0


The highlighted number is the number of our added string from point 2). In case of other mods, make sure that it corresponds to the following formula: 1585267068834414592 + № of the string in quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++). If you want to use this tweak along with the "Train your party in training fields" one, then increase the highlighted number by 1 (1585267068834417731 -> 1585267068834417732) and make sure that you put the above string (found in quick_strings.txt) AFTER the one in the mentioned tweak. It's much easier to adjust this tweak than the other one, that's why.

Tweak 10 s)

To add health regeneration to any battle - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

If you apply this tweak, then the health of all troops (including you) and horses participating in battle will be regenerated by 1 percent upon every 5 seconds. You'll have to wait around 8 minutes to fully recover from a critically wounded state, so it won't be enough to save you if you get overwhelmed. But if the escape routes are not blocked, then this can be really helpful, especially in prolonged sieges.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - castle hall assaults (21 -> 22)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - town center assaults (21 -> 22)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 20)
mst_sneak_caught_fight - getting caught by guards upon sneaking in (13 -> 14)
mst_bandits_at_night - night ambushes (9 -> 10)
mst_arena_melee_fight - arena fights (18 -> 19)

2) For each section, add the following trigger in form of a new line right under the previously increased trigger counter:

5.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  23 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1 12 1 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774913 525 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 763 525 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 764 1720 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 1 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 1720 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1721 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774914 0 1720 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 1 505 3 1224979098644774913 764 1224979098644774916 505 3 1224979098644774913 763 1224979098644774914 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1721 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774914 0 1720 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 1 505 3 1224979098644774913 764 1224979098644774916 505 3 1224979098644774913 763 1224979098644774914 3 0 3 0 


The 5 at the beginning is the trigger to make a regeneration happen, expressed in seconds. Meanwhile, the 1 is the amount of health recovered at a time, in percentage (relative to one's max health). Change them to your liking! (e.g. replacing the 5 with 300 will make a regeneration happen upon every 5 minutes)

Tweak 10 t)

To be able to participate in battles when wounded - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

With this tweak, the current health of the player will not be taken into account when trying to engage or join a battle in person. If the player is actually injured, then he will still appear with an empty health bar. Note however that the tiniest damage received will knock you out.

File: menus.txt

1) Locate the following pieces (9):

mno_encounter_attack  1 2147485156 1 360287970189639680  Charge_the_enemy.

mno_join_attack  1 2147485156 1 360287970189639680  Charge_the_enemy.

mno_join_siege_with_allies  1 2147485156 1 360287970189639680  Join_the_next_assault.

mno_castle_lead_attack  5 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 30 2

mno_siege_defender_join_battle  1 2147485156 1 360287970189639680  Join_the_battle.

mno_village_attack_bandits  2 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 561 3 144115188075856143 39 1

mno_castle_attack_surprise  1 2147485156 1 360287970189639680  Launch_a_surprise_attack_on_the_castle.

mno_castle_attack  3 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 200 1 504403158265495619

mno_camp_train_melee  3 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 1 2 936748722493063355 648518346341351424


2) Decrease the numbers in red by 1 (1 -> 0; 5 -> 4; 2 -> 1; 3 -> 2), and delete the parts in blue. Make sure that 2 gaps remain before the now reduced red numbers and 2 gaps after if the next part is a string, or 1 gap if the next part is a code. In case of other mods, simply find all the instances of 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 and decrease the operation counters before them or at the beginning of their own section by 1 in the same fashion as shown above.

Tweak 10 u)

To be able to always join any side in battles - credits to BananaFruit and Fandom User

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: menus.txt

1) For field battles, find these two lines:

-50 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 80

-50 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 80


And replace both -50 with -100 and both 80 with 101. In case of other mods, find these 2 pieces right before Move_in_to_help_the_{s2} and Rush_to_the_aid_of_the_{s1}. respectively. In Native, the given relation values are 0 by default.

2) For sieges, search for this piece:

6 2204 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856956 2190 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 2204 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856280 2190 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 432345564227567630 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 0


And replace it with 0. Watch for the gaps! In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above piece to find it. So replace:

144115188075856956 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party_2 variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
432345564227567630 (2 instances) with the number you get for: 432345564227567616 + № of fac_player_supporters_faction from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
144115188075856280 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 10 v)

To allow accessing your inventory upon pressing "I" in various battle/fight scenarios - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

The way it's set now is that if you press the "I" key (inventory shortcut) in various fight/battle scenes, you'll get a notification that you can't access your inventory. Well, if you apply this tweak, this will no longer be the case for those battles and fights that normally don't have a chest. You'll be able to access your inventory any time you want in these cases, whenever you press the inventory shortcut key ("I"). The restrictions will be up to you.

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Find all the instances of the following two triggers:

-22.000000 0.000000 0.000000  1 1106 1 216172782113783928  0 


It can be found under these fights/battles, in order:

mst_bandits_at_night (night ambushes)
mst_village_training (training peasants in villages - doesn't work)
mst_grandmaster_ambush (ambush in castle hall that starts the grandmaster quest)
mst_back_alley_kill_local_merchant (quest from lords to kill the local merchant)
mst_back_alley_revolt (the revolt of the townsfolk that may happen while collecting taxes)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry (siege tower sieges)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder (ladder sieges)
mst_training_ground_training (training in training fields - doesn't work)
mst_arena_challenge_fight (not sure what this is - maybe when you have to fight 3 KO knights upon joining an order?)
mst_arena_heroic_challenge_fight (not sure what this is - maybe when you have to fight 3 KO knights upon joining an order?)
mst_duel_with_lord (when you chalenge a lord to a duel)
mst_quick_battle_battle (quick battles (open fields) from the main menu - not in use)
mst_quick_battle_siege (quick battles (sieges) from the main menu - not in use)
mst_bandit_lair (bandit lairs)
mst_alley_fight (alley fights - not in use)
-22.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  1 1106 1 216172782113783927 


It can be found under these fights/battles, in order:

mst_lead_charge (field battles)
mst_village_attack_bandits (bandit infestations)
mst_village_raid (village fights)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle (siege offense continuation in castle hall)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center (siege offense continuation in courtyard)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally (sally-outs)
mst_ai_training_with_formations (not in use)
mst_camp_review_soldiers (review your soldiers)

In case of other mods, the two highlighted strings (216172782113783928 and 216172782113783927) to be found have to correspond to 216172782113783805 + № of str_cant_use_inventory_now and str_use_baggage_for_inventory respectively from strings.txt (line number in Notepad++)

2) For the fights of your choice, replace the above lines with this:

-22.000000 0.000000 0.000000  1 2075 1 1  0 


Tweak 10 w)

To sort the post-battle kill counter of NPCs in descending order - credits to Vetrogor

File: scripts.txt

1) Locate this line under the script called print_kill_count_to_s0:

46 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 2319 1 0 12 1 1224979098644774913 1704 1 1224979098644774913 1718 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1507 1 1224979098644774914 1723 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 1723 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 1 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 401 520 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 402 500 3 1224979098644774914 401 1224979098644774917 500 3 1224979098644774914 402 1224979098644774918 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 31 2 144115188075856180 1 500 3 1224979098644774914 401 144115188075857248 500 3 1224979098644774914 402 144115188075857249 3 0 1073741856 2 1224979098644774915 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 2322 2 1 1224979098644774914 2120 3 72057594037927939 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 2133 2 72057594037927940 1224979098644774915 2133 2 72057594037927941 1224979098644774916 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 31 2 144115188075856180 1 2133 2 72057594037927941 144115188075857249 3 0 2320 2 2 1585267068834416204 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 33 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 2320 2 0 1585267068834416205 5 0 1706 1 1224979098644774913 2320 2 0 1585267068834416206 5 0 2320 2 0 1585267068834416207 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2320 2 0 1585267068834414919 3 0


2) Replace it with this:

68 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 2319 1 0 1617 1 648518346341351425 12 1 1224979098644774913 1704 1 1224979098644774913 1718 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1507 1 1224979098644774914 1723 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 1723 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 1 2120 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 401 520 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 402 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774916 500 3 1224979098644774914 401 1224979098644774917 500 3 1224979098644774914 402 1224979098644774918 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774914 1 500 3 1224979098644774914 440 1224979098644774919 500 3 1224979098644774914 441 1224979098644774915 500 3 1224979098644774914 442 1224979098644774916 4 0 1706 1 1224979098644774913 500 3 1224979098644774914 443 1 5 0 500 3 1224979098644774914 443 0 3 0 3 0 1650 2 1224979098644774920 648518346341351425 2133 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 6 3 1224979098644774922 0 1224979098644774920 1652 3 1224979098644774923 648518346341351425 0 520 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774923 440 6 3 1224979098644774925 1 1224979098644774921 1652 3 1224979098644774926 648518346341351425 1224979098644774925 520 3 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774926 440 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774926 2133 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774927 3 0 3 0 1615 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774923 1 2106 2 1224979098644774921 1 520 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774923 441 520 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774923 442 1073741856 2 1224979098644774915 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 2322 2 1 1224979098644774923 2120 3 72057594037927939 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 2133 2 72057594037927940 1224979098644774915 2133 2 72057594037927941 1224979098644774916 2320 2 2 1585267068834416204 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774923 360287970189639680 33 3 1224979098644774923 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 2320 2 0 1585267068834416205 5 0 540 3 1224979098644774923 443 1 2320 2 0 1585267068834416206 5 0 2320 2 0 1585267068834416207 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2320 2 0 1585267068834414919 3 0


3) Watch for the gap at the start, there has to be one!

Tweak 10 x)

To remove the losing of items and gold when being taken prisoner - credits to Dalion

Point 2) of this tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

When someone takes you prisoner, they take 1-5 of your items and 1/4 to 1/10 of your gold. You also lose all your troops. If you manage to defeat the party that has looted you, all the taken items with their modifiers will be guaranteed to appear in the battle loot, so you can take them back. But gold and troops are lost forever. With this tweak, you can remove the gold and item penalties.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find and observe the body of the script called loot_player_items:

52 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 1540 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1541 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 30 2 1224979098644774915 0 1542 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 1570 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 2133 2 1224979098644774918 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 11 2133 2 1224979098644774918 20 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 15 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 2 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 3 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 4 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 9 31 2 1224979098644774917 10 2133 2 1224979098644774918 5 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 12 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 13 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 14 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 15 31 2 1224979098644774917 7 2133 2 1224979098644774918 5 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774919 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 1531 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774915 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 521 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 109 2105 2 1224979098644774920 110 501 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774915 2106 2 1224979098644774920 110 2105 2 1224979098644774920 115 501 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774916 2106 2 1224979098644774920 115 2105 2 1224979098644774920 1 2109 2 1224979098644774920 5 501 3 1224979098644774912 109 1224979098644774920 3 0 3 0 2149 2 1224979098644774921 360287970189639680 2123 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 4 2123 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774921 10 2136 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 1529 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774924


To remove the loss of items, delete the bolded part and decrease the counter at the beginning of the script by 46 (52 -> 6). To remove the loss of gold, delete the part in italic and decrease the counter at the beginning of the script by 5 (52 -> 47). Make sure that there is only 1 gap left at the place of the deleted pieces! If you just want to change the aforementioned penalties, find their highlighted values above and adjust them to your liking.

2) Alternatively, to remove both the item and gold loss, replace the body of the loot_player_items script with this:

1 23 2 1224979098644774912 1


Be sure that there is a gap left at the beginning of the code!

Tweak 10 y)

To change some circumstances about sneaking into enemy walled fiefs - credits to Leonion, Adorno and VonDegurechaff

Point 1) & 2) of this tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!
Point 3) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

menus.txt
mission_templates.txt

1) To stop getting caught, open menus.txt and find this piece of code:

2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0


Replace 0 100 with 1000 1001

2) To have your whole combat equipment with you, open mission_templates.txt and find these two pieces under the section called mst_sneak_caught_fight:

65 0 4100 447 16 1
1 4100 447 16 1


Change both 447 to 256

3) Alternatively, to be able to bring in smaller weapons under your sneaky outfit, find this empty trigger under the section called mst_sneak_caught_fight:

0.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  0  0 


And replace it with this:

-20.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  0  83 2133 2 1224979098644774912 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 13 1541 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 1224979098644774915 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 31 2 1224979098644774917 2 2707 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774916 2147483680 2 1224979098644774918 95 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 2708 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774916 2105 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774920 2718 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774916 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774921 0 2719 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774916 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774922 1 2123 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774921 3 2105 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774923 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774921 3 0 2720 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774916 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774921 0 2721 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774916 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774922 1 2123 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774921 3 2105 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774923 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774921 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 1542 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1224979098644774915 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774919 3 0 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 1542 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1224979098644774915 2708 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774920 2718 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774912 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774921 0 2719 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774922 1 2123 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774921 3 2105 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774923 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774921 3 0 2720 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774912 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774921 0 2721 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774922 1 2123 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774921 3 2105 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774923 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774921 3 0 3 0 3 0 1700 1 1224979098644774924 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 -1 1779 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774912 3 0 4 0 150 1 288230376151712905 2133 2 1224979098644774925 288230376151712905 1774 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151712904 1779 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151712905 3 0 


This variation allows you to enter a town with your usual sneak outfit, but also bring a one-handed weapon that has 95 or less reach from your equipped weapon slots or the first 3 inventory slots. The actual weapon selected from these 7 slots overall will be the one with the highest rating from this formula: swing damage + thrust damage + weapon speed. If a weapon deals piercing or blunt damage, then that portion gets divided by 3, so they are valued much less, which is understandable since slashing weapons are generally faster and can damage moderately armored guards just as well. If the player has Assassin Throwing Knives (288230376151712905, 3 instances) anywhere in the inventory, then those will replace the conventional Throwing Daggers (288230376151712904). Change these highlighted values to your liking! In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above piece as follows. So replace:

288230376151712904 with the number you get for: 288230376151711744 + № of the throwing weapons you get or would like to get by default from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
288230376151712905 (3 instances) with the number you get for: 288230376151711744 + № of the replacing throwing weapon of your choice from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Tweak 10 z)

To disable certain aspects of night ambushes - credits to Dalion and Leonion

Point 3) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

You can do 2 things with this tweak: prevent Scorpion Assassins ambushing you at night when certain conditions are met or disable night ambushes completely. In case of the former, Scorpion Assasins will not ambush the player if at least one of the following is true:

You wear their body armor and helm (considering the player an ally)
You have a positive relation with their order (attacking a friend is illogical)
You have joined their order, no matter the rank (attacking a fellow order member is even more illogical)

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code right at the beginning of the script called cf_enter_center_location_bandit_check:

72 2147483679 2 144115188075856246 0 561 3 144115188075856143 155 1 31 2 144115188075856238 0 31 2 144115188075856216 0 4 0 541


2) To prevent Scorpion Assassins from ambushing you, increase the 72 by 25 (72 -> 97), and copy this piece of code to before the highlighted 4:

2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 4 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856246 155 31 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189640025 2190 3 1224979098644774920 432345564227567630 432345564227567677 2133 2 1224979098644774921 0 2133 2 1224979098644774922 0 4 0 151 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712410 151 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712831 2133 2 1224979098644774921 1 3 0 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774923 360287970189639680 162 2147483679 2 1224979098644774923 0 2173 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774923 31 2 1224979098644774924 432345564227567677 2133 2 1224979098644774922 1 3 0 1073741856 2 1224979098644774920 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774921 1 31 2 1224979098644774922 1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774919 1


Watch for the gaps (1 before and 1 after the inserted piece)

3) Or alternatively, to disable night ambushes completely, replace the highlighted 72 2147483679 2 144115188075856246 0 piece with this:

73 31 2 0 1 2147483679 2 144115188075856246 0


Watch for the gap at the beginning of the line! In case of other mods, simply find the operation counter at the beginning of the same script (72 in PoP, 68 in Native), increase it by 1, then add this piece right after it, separated by one gap from each side: 31 2 0 1

11. Loot (3)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
11 a) To get more loot
11 b) To be able to loot items from NPC-s as well
11 c) To fix the problem about loot depending on the order of troops killed


Tweak 11 a)

To get more loot - credits to Leonion and Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) To increase the overall amount of loot received, find this piece of code under the script called party_calculate_loot:

2108 2 1224979098644774927 8


The 8 is a divisor in the loot_probability formula, so reduce it to get more loot in general. In case of other mods, the divisor is likely different (in Native it's 10). But likely there's only 1 instance of "2108 2 1224979098644774927 X" under the party_calculate_loot script, and that X is your value.

2) To change the loot shares in your favor, find and observe the script called calculate_main_party_shares -1:

13 2133 2 1224979098644774912 10 1650 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 6 3 1224979098644774914 1 1224979098644774913 1652 3 1224979098644774915 648518346341351424 1224979098644774914 4 0 2147485155 1 1224979098644774915 1653 3 1224979098644774916 648518346341351424 1224979098644774914 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774912 3 3 0 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 


Here are the things you can adjust in there:

To increase your own share of loot, increase the 10
To reduce the share of companions, change the 3 to either 1 (companions will only take 1 share as regular troops do), or to 0 (to eliminate the share with them completely)
To eliminate the loot share with regular troops, decrease the counter at the beginning by 4 (13 -> 9), then delete the piece in red. Make sure that there is exactly 1 space left at the place of the removed part! In Native, this script is absolutely the same.

Tweak 11 b)

To be able to loot items from NPC-s as well - credits to BananaFruit

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
Note: items tagged with the "unique" flag still won't be lootable

File: scripts.txt

1) Search for:

2147485155 1 1224979098644774935


2) Delete it and make sure that only 1 space character remains between the parts to the left and right. In case of other mods, the highlighted local variable (1224979098644774935) is likely different, but probably there's only 1 instance in the script starting with "2147485155 1 12249790986447749".

3) Reduce the number at the beginning of the party_calculate_loot -1 script by 1 (336 -> 335)

Tweak 11 c)

To fix the problem about loot depending on the order of troops killed - credits to Vetrogor, Tingyun and rubik

The problem happens when you fight against bigger parties, or when your own party is rather small. For example, the enemy has 100 knights and 900 peasants. If you kill the peasants first, then they will be the first to get looted, and the knights will come next. When the sharing of loot begins, the peasants will be processed first and the loot buffer will quickly get filled up with their low-tier items. And then there will be no more spaces left in the loot buffer to get items from the knights too. This tweak fixes the problem by making the order of looting defeated troops get sorted out by their level (highest level troops will be processed first).

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the script called party_calculate_loot -1 and increase the counter in the beginning of its body by 23 (336 -> 359)

2) Then find this piece of code:

1224979098644774932 0 1650 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774912


3) And replace it with this:

1224979098644774932 0 1650 2 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774960 1224979098644774933 6 3 1224979098644774961 0 1224979098644774933 2133 2 1224979098644774962 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774963 -1 6 3 1224979098644774964 0 1224979098644774960 1652 3 1224979098644774965 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774964 2147485155 1 1224979098644774965 2171 2 1224979098644774966 1224979098644774965 32 2 1224979098644774966 1224979098644774963 2133 2 1224979098644774963 1224979098644774966 2133 2 1224979098644774962 1224979098644774964 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774962 -1 1652 3 1224979098644774967 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774962 1653 3 1224979098644774968 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774962 1654 3 1224979098644774969 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774962 1615 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774967 1224979098644774968 1610 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774967 1224979098644774968 1618 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774967 1224979098644774969 2106 2 1224979098644774960 1 3 0 3 0


Make sure that there is 1, and only 1 gap/space before and after the replacement.

12. Economy and Prosperity (17)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
12 a) To change the base income (rents) from towns, castles and villages
12 b) To add a rent compensation system to the game
12 c) To change tax inefficiency
12 d) To change various enterprise values
12 e) To change the wages of troops
12 f) To make troop wages be influenced by faction relations and culture
12 g) To increase the wealth of various merchants
12 h) To make trading more profitable
12 i) To change the price of buying wine in taverns to increase the relation with the town
12 j) To allow tavernkeepers to buy prisoners from you
12 k) To be able to directly sell garrisoned prisoners to ransom brokers
12 l) To always get a peace treaty when asking for one
12 m) To change the prosperity loss of a town or a castle when one gets conquered
12 n) To change the prosperity gain for villages upon completing certain quests and selling them goods
12 o) To change the chance and prosperity loss of village infestations
12 p) To increase the prosperity of villages by investing money into them
12 q) To change the circumstances and effects of donating money to townsfolk and villagers


Tweak 12 a)

To change the base income (rents) from towns, castles and villages - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak might be compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Note that changing these values need a new week's start to apply, so you won't be able to experience the changes during the next weekly budget report, but during the one after and onwards. The values below affect both the player's budget and the garrison of the AI (the income will affect the size of the maintainable garrisons for the AI).

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

600 2107 2 1224979098644774915 4 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 3 0 5 0 541 3 1224979098644774912 0 2 2133 2 1224979098644774914 600 2107 2 1224979098644774915 6 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 5 0 541 3 1224979098644774912 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1200 2107 2 1224979098644774915 3 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 3 0 521 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 50 2120 3 1224979098644774917 80 1224979098644774916 2107 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774917 2108 2 1224979098644774914 480


2) The 600 is your base income (rents) from villages, the 600 is your base income (rents) from castles, and the 1200 is your base income (rents) from towns. Lastly, 480 is the final divisor for your total income. Change these values to your liking. In case of other mods, look for a trigger that starts with 168.000000 and have either such values, or 1200, 1200, 2400 and 120 respectively, as in Native.

Tweak 12 b)

To add a rent compensation system to the game - credits to Димасик

By default, the rent from the walled fiefs you own are barely enough to pay for the garrison, or not even enough for that, despite that you regularly update the fief with improvements and keep it prosperous. While people on the streets keep telling you how big of a business owning the town's economy is... Furthermore, the profits from winning tournaments and selling captured prisoners far outweigh the rents. This is just unfair. Therefore, this tweak will add an additional rent to the base you get, depending on the prosperity and the type of fief. The base income formula should better not be rewritten, because there are fief improvements that heavily rely on it (e.g. tax collector office), which would lose their purpose. With this tweak, you'll get compensated as follows:

additional rent = (prosperity - 20)^2 / 6

Castles get half of the resulting value (/2), and villages get half (/2) of what castles get. Here are some examples on how the values look in practice:

300 prosperity (rich): town ​​13066, castle 6533, village 3266 denars
250 prosperity (prosperous): town ​​8816, castle 4408, village 2204 denars
190 prosperity (average): town ​​4816, castle 2408, village 1204 denars
120 prosperity (abandoned): town ​​1666, castle 833, village 416 denars

File: presentations.txt

1) Find this piece:

-60.000000  661 902


Replace it with this:

-60.000000  674 902


2) Then find this piece:

521 3 1224979098644774964 1224979098644774919 47 521 3 1224979098644774965 1224979098644774919 48


And replace it with this:

521 3 1224979098644774964 1224979098644774919 47 521 3 1224979098644774965 1224979098644774919 48 521 3 1224979098644774981 1224979098644774919 50 2106 2 1224979098644774981 20 2107 2 1224979098644774981 1224979098644774981 2108 2 1224979098644774981 6 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774919 648518346341351463 2108 2 1224979098644774981 2 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774919 648518346341351503 2108 2 1224979098644774981 2 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774964 1224979098644774981


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains before and after the replacement!

3) The formula pieces are highlighted accordingly in the above piece. Change them if you wish

Tweak 12 c)

To change tax inefficiency - credits to Alex Toews and VonDegurechaff

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

There is a maximum amount of centers that you can own before tax inefficiency kicks in. This maximum amount, as well as the tax percentage loss (=inefficiency) per excess centers varies based on the "Campaign AI Difficulty" setting you play on. The maximum tax inefficiency is 65% by default, so you can't go above it, no matter how many fiefs you have. A town is worth 2 center points, whereas a castle and a village are both worth 1.

File: presentations.txt

1) For setting the maximum amount of centers without tax inefficiency, as well as the tax percentage loss per excess center point (based on the campaign AI difficulty), find this piece of code under prsnt_budget_report:

8 2133 2 1224979098644774914 4 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 10 2133 2 1224979098644774914 3 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 2 2133 2 1224979098644774913 12 2133 2 1224979098644774914 2


The 8, 10 and 12 are the maximum amount of center points before tax inefficiency starts to take effect, for "Good", "Average" and "Poor" campaign AI difficulty respectively. The belonging tax inefficiency (tax loss) per excess center points are 4%, 3% and 2% in the same order (Good, Average, Poor). Change these values to your liking. Probably the same piece of code exists in other mods too, but with different values. For instance, in Native, the above values are 2, 4, 6 and 5, 4, 3 respectively.

2) And for setting the tax inefficiency cap, find this piece:

2110 2 1224979098644774968 65


Change that 65 to whatever you want (0 to eliminate tax inefficiency). In case of other mods, just find a value of 65 under prsnt_budget_report.

3) Alternatively, to save some processing time, you can remove the whole tax inefficiency system. To do so, find this piece first:

-60.000000  661 902 1 999999


And decrease that 661 by 27 (661 -> 634). Then remove this part:

4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 2121 3 1224979098644774968 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 2107 2 1224979098644774968 1224979098644774914 2110 2 1224979098644774968 65 2122 3 1224979098644774969 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774968 2108 2 1224979098644774969 100 2106 2 1224979098644774936 1224979098644774969 910 3 72057594037927937 216172782113787351 0 729 2 1 25 730 2 1 1224979098644774935 926 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 900 730 2 1 900 925 2 72057594037927937 1 2122 3 72057594037927936 1224979098644774969 -1 910 3 72057594037927937 1585267068834414649 32776 729 2 1 900 730 2 1 900 925 2 72057594037927937 1 921 2 72057594037927937 16711680 729 2 1 500 730 2 1 1224979098644774935 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2106 2 1224979098644774935 27 3 0


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains in place of the deleted content. It is better to not perform this method for other mods.

Tweak 12 d)

To change various enterprise values - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments
This tweak requires a new game to take effect!

There are 4 values for each enterprise that you can change with this tweak:

The buying price (denars)
Labor and upkeep costs (denars, weekly constant)
Number of inputs per week
Number of outputs per week

A little explanation regarding inputs and outputs: for example, if you build a brewery, the craftmaster will automatically purchase 1 grain per week (=input), and the brewery will produce 2 ales per week (=output). These goods are automatically purchased and sold at market prices. The number of outputs is the primary factor for determining how much profit your enterprise makes.

File: scripts.txt

1) For each enterprise, find the following pieces of codes under the initialize_item_info script. The highlighted values are in this order: input, output, labor & upkeep costs, buying price.

Mill and Bakery:
6 507 3 288230376151711861 55 6 507 3 288230376151711861 56 30 507 3 288230376151711861 53 50 507 3 288230376151711861 58 4500

Brewery:
1 507 3 288230376151711849 55 2 507 3 288230376151711849 56 50 507 3 288230376151711849 53 120 507 3 288230376151711849 58 5000

Wine Press:
4 507 3 288230376151711848 55 2 507 3 288230376151711848 56 60 507 3 288230376151711848 53 220 507 3 288230376151711848 58 5000

Tannery:
3 507 3 288230376151711845 55 3 507 3 288230376151711845 56 50 507 3 288230376151711845 53 220 507 3 288230376151711845 58 12000

Wool Cloth Weavery:
2 507 3 288230376151711838 55 2 507 3 288230376151711838 56 120 507 3 288230376151711838 53 250 507 3 288230376151711838 58 6000

Linen Weavery:
2 507 3 288230376151711836 55 2 507 3 288230376151711836 56 120 507 3 288230376151711836 53 250 507 3 288230376151711836 58 6000

Ironworks:
2 507 3 288230376151711843 55 2 507 3 288230376151711843 56 60 507 3 288230376151711843 53 410 507 3 288230376151711843 58 3500

Oil Press:
6 507 3 288230376151711833 55 2 507 3 288230376151711833 56 80 507 3 288230376151711833 53 450 507 3 288230376151711833 58 4500

Velvet Weavery and Dyeworks:
2 507 3 288230376151711841 55 2 507 3 288230376151711841 56 160 507 3 288230376151711841 53 1025 507 3 288230376151711841 57 288230376151711840 507 3 288230376151711841 58 10000


2) Change the above values to your liking. In case the highlighted values are unchanged in other mods (in Native it's the same), you can find the above entries by adjusting the code of the given items, belonging to the respective enterprises (288230376151711744 + № of an item from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor))

Tweak 12 e)

To change the wages of troops - credits to TheMageLord, Vetrogor and Dalion

Point 1) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

scripts.txt
presentations.txt

1) For the wages of the troops themselves, open scripts.txt and find this piece of code under the script called game_get_troop_wage:

3 2107 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774914 2108 2 1224979098644774914 25
5 2108 2 1224979098644774914 3
2107 2 1224979098644774914 2 3 0
2107 2 1224979098644774914 3
2122 3 1224979098644774918 5


The 3 and 25 are factors that determine the base wage of troops. First, the level of the troop gets taken plus 3, then the game squares the resulting value (multiplied by itself), and finally divides it by 25. The 5 and 3 are for the wage modifiers for mounted units: the base wage (calculated previously) gets multiplied by 5 and divided by 3. Resulting in units on horseback cost 66% more. The 2 is the wage multiplier for mercenaries, so their base wage gets doubled by default. The 3 is the wage multiplier for companions (so they cost three times as much as regular troops of the same level). And the 5 is the percentage to reduce troop wages per leadership point. 10 would effectively make troop wages become 1 (the minimum) at 10 leadership, so there's not much point in going beyond that. In case of other mods, the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774918) might be different too, so be aware of that. In case of Native, the only difference is that in the last piece, the local variable is 1224979098644774917.

2) As for the wage modifiers for garrisoned troops, open presentations.txt and find this piece:

2108 2 1224979098644774972 2 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774924 2 2108 2 1224979098644774972 4 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774924 3 2107 2 1224979098644774972 3 2108 2 1224979098644774972 4 2105 2 1224979098644774972 500


The wage divisor for troops garrisoned in castles and towns is 2 by default (you pay half of the normal wages for garrisoned troops). The case is a bit different for the KO Stronghold and Hideout. The 3 is a multiplier and the 4 is a divider applied to the base wage of troops stored inside them. As such, their actual wages are 75% (3/4) of their normal wage. Additionally, the stationary crew (NPCs, guards, refugees, etc.) in these locations have to be paid 500 denars as an upkeep per week. The recommended wage is 50% 1/2, which is the same as in case of regular walled fiefs. Regardless, whatever you do, just don't make a division by 0, as errors will occur. If you want to eliminate the wages paid in these locations completely, then change the 3 and 500 to 0 and you are good to go. This piece is completely different in other mods.

3) Change the above values to your liking.

Tweak 12 f)

To make troop wages be influenced by faction relations and culture - credits to Vetrogor

First of all, there could be another incentive to befriend certain minor factions beside getting allied spawns to protect your kingdom (for the loss of being unable to capture the respective unique spawns, mind you). Likewise, it would make more sense if troops that don't like you as much would ask for a higher wage. Furthermore, receiving a wage discount for the respective kingdom troops upon being a vassal or a king for that culture would be logical, as with the same relations, of course it's your kingdom's troops who would support you with a greater vigor. Therefore, with this tweak, the following changes will happen:

For all troops in the game, a discount or penalty will be applied to their overall wage, based on your relation with their faction. The scale is: 0.3 x faction_relation. So you'll get a 30% discount at +100 relations (your starting relation with your own kingdom) and a 30% penalty at -100 relations. This also applies to Knighthood Orders of course.
An additional 20% wage discount will be applied to troops belonging to the faction you joined as a vassal or the culture you chose as a king/queen

This overall means that as a vassal, you'll have an innate 20% wage discount for your faction's troops, and as a king, you'll have a 50% wage discount for your kingdom's troops.

File:

troops.txt
scripts.txt

1) Download this modified troops.txt and overwrite the one you have in your module with it:

https://www.dropbox.com/s/adogko1ra28w2l0/troops.txt?dl=0


What got changed is that all troops are added (linked) to their own faction respectively, which is required for the tweak to work.

2) Next, open scripts.txt, find the script called game_get_troop_wage and replace everything in its body with this:

 99 21 1 1224979098644774912 22 1 1224979098644774913 500 3 360287970189640762 407 1224979098644774913 1 2 936748722493063921 1224979098644774912 500 3 360287970189640762 405 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640053 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640052 5 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640310 360287970189640315 5 0 2171 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 2105 2 1224979098644774914 3 2107 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774914 2108 2 1224979098644774914 25 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774914 40 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 520 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 172 31 2 1224979098644774916 2 2107 2 1224979098644774914 4 2108 2 1224979098644774914 3 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774914 40 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 520 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 172 31 2 1224979098644774916 3 2107 2 1224979098644774914 6 2108 2 1224979098644774914 5 3 0 4 0 152 1 1224979098644774912 2107 2 1224979098644774914 5 2108 2 1224979098644774914 3 3 0 4 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639737 360287970189639764 2107 2 1224979098644774914 2 3 0 4 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 2107 2 1224979098644774914 3 3 0 2170 3 1224979098644774917 1 360287970189639680 2122 3 1224979098644774918 5 1224979098644774917 2121 3 1224979098644774919 100 1224979098644774918 2107 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774919 2108 2 1224979098644774914 100 2133 2 1224979098644774920 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 100 4 0 1073741855 2 144115188075856008 1 31 2 144115188075856294 432345564227567630 2173 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 522 3 1224979098644774923 144115188075856294 10 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 2106 2 1224979098644774921 20 3 0 4 0 4 0 33 3 1224979098644774922 432345564227567623 432345564227567628 2105 2 1224979098644774922 8 522 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774922 21 522 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774922 10 4 0 31 2 144115188075856294 432345564227567630 31 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774926 100 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774924 1 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 5 0 2190 3 1224979098644774926 432345564227567630 1224979098644774922 3 0 5 0 2190 3 1224979098644774926 432345564227567630 1224979098644774922 3 0 2107 2 1224979098644774926 30 2108 2 1224979098644774926 100 2106 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774926 2107 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774921 2108 2 1224979098644774914 100 3 0 3 0 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640052 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640053 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640310 360287970189640315 2111 2 1224979098644774914 1 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774914 2075 1 72057594037927936


The 20 is the vassal/king bonus, while the 30 is the maximum possible discount/penalty based on your relations with a faction. Change them to your liking!

Tweak 12 g)

To increase the wealth of various merchants - credits to BananaFruit, Hardrada, VonDegurechaff and Димасик

Point 2) might be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Every 24 hours the game will refresh the amount of money merchants have available to purchase things from you. If the merchant has less than the "minimum threshold" value, or more than the "maximum threshold" value, then the game will give or take away from the merchant a random amount of gold between a "minimum" and a "maximum" value.

Files:

triggers.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) Open triggers.txt and search for the following pieces of codes, depending on the merchant type:

Goods merchants:
3500 2136 3 1224979098644774925 2000 3000

Armorers:
4500 2136 3 1224979098644774915 400 800


(1st instance)

15000 2136 3 1224979098644774916 50 150


(1st instance)

Weaponsmiths:
4500 2136 3 1224979098644774915 400 800


(2nd instance)

15000 2136 3 1224979098644774916 50 150


(2nd instance)

Horse merchants:
4500 2136 3 1224979098644774915 400 800


(3rd instance)

15000 2136 3 1224979098644774916 50 150


(3rd instance)

Calanon:
6000 2136 3 1224979098644774915 500 900

40000 2136 3 1224979098644774916 100 200


(1st instance)

Quigfen:
8000 2136 3 1224979098644774915 600 1000

40000 2136 3 1224979098644774916 100 200


(2nd instance) The numbers in orange are the "minimum threshold" values, the numbers in red are the "maximum threshold" values, and the numbers in blue are the "minimum" and "maximum" amounts to be added or taken away respectively. Change these values to your liking. Increasing every value about the "minimum threshold" tenfold (x10) should make all merchants rather wealthy. If you apply this tweak to an existing save, then you will have to wait a day or two for the merchants to accumulate enough wealth due to the way described above.

2) Alternatively, you can add a new trigger that will increase (cannot decrease) the wealth of all merchants, based on the prosperity rating of the given town. For that, open simple_triggers.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134). Then add this trigger to the end of the file, as a new line:

24.000000  35 2133 2 1224979098644774916 12000 2108 2 1224979098644774916 300 2133 2 1224979098644774918 4 2133 2 1224979098644774919 3 2133 2 1224979098644774920 3 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 521 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 50 2107 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 6 3 1224979098644774913 21 25 521 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2149 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774915 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 23 2107 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918 2108 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774919 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774917 2108 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 2121 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 800 2136 3 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 0 3 0 5 0 30 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774917 2108 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 2121 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 800 2136 3 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774921 0 3 0 1528 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774921 3 0 3 0 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file. The 24.0 is the above described refreshing rate, expressed in in-game hours. The 12000 is the maximum amount of denars (in the long run, temporarily it can get a bit higher) that a weapons/armor/horse merchant can have at 300 prosperity. The actual maximum wealth of merchants will be based on the ratio of the current prosperity and that 300 (so with a 210 prosperity rating, the maximum amount of money that merchants can have will be 12000 * 210/300 = 8400). The 4 is a multiplier and the 3 is a divisor for the maximum amount of money that goods merchants can have, compared to the amount set for other merchants (so right now, it's 12000 * 4/3 = 16000). Lastly, the 3 is the number of days after which merchants should reach their maximum amount of denars (wealth) allowed, given that you don't buy or sell anything from/to them. Change these values to your liking. In case of other mods, you need to adjust the highlighted party range of 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 to that of the first town from the lower end, and to that of the party after the last town (last_town + 1) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 648518346341351424 + № of a party from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor).

Tweak 12 h)

To make trading more profitable

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

There are two easy ways to achieve this:

change the cost of trade goods
change the avaible modifiers for trade goods

Both will increase the profit margins of trading

File: item_kinds1.txt

1) Open the Item Editor within Morgh's Editor and triple (x3) the 'Cost' of all trade goods from entries #87 (Spice) to #105 (Ale), except for Date Fruit (#102).

2) Next, add the following modifers (tick them) to those items, except for date fruit once again:

Poor
Crude
Old
Cheap
Fine
Well Made
Exquisite
Masterwork
Strong
Rough
Superb
Lordly

3) The resulting entries are as follows, you can copy them over for an easier application:

 itm_spice Spice Spice 1  spice_sack 0  33619979 0 2640 814419904 40.000000 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0
 0
0

 itm_salt Salt Salt 1  salt_sack 0  65547 0 750 814419904 50.000000 120 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_oil Oil Oil 1  oil 0  33619979 0 1350 814419904 50.000000 60 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0
 0
0

 itm_pottery Pottery Pottery 1  jug 0  65547 0 300 814419904 50.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_raw_flax Flax_Bundle Flax_Bundle 1  raw_flax 0  65547 0 450 814419904 40.000000 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_linen Linen Linen 1  linen 0  65547 0 750 814419904 40.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_wool Wool Wool 1  wool_sack 0  65547 0 390 814419904 40.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_wool_cloth Wool_Cloth Wool_Cloth 1  wool_cloth 0  65547 0 750 814419904 40.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_raw_silk Raw_Silk Raw_Silk 1  raw_silk_bundle 0  65547 0 1800 814419904 30.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_raw_dyes Dyes Dyes 1  dyes 0  65547 0 600 814419904 10.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_velvet Velvet Velvet 1  velvet 0  65547 0 3060 814419904 40.000000 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_iron Iron Iron 1  iron 0  65547 0 780 814419904 60.000000 60 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_tools Tools Tools 1  iron_hammer 0  65547 0 1230 814419904 50.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_raw_leather Hides Hides 1  leatherwork_inventory 0  65547 0 360 814419904 40.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_leatherwork Leatherwork Leatherwork 1  leatherwork_frame 0  65547 0 660 814419904 40.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_furs Furs Furs 1  fur_pack 0  65547 0 1170 814419904 40.000000 90 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_wine Wine Wine 1  amphora_slim 0  33619979 0 660 814419904 30.000000 60 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ale Ale Ale 1  ale_barrel 0  33619979 0 360 814419904 30.000000 70 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 50 0 0
 0
0


Changing the prices of food is covered in another tweak, hence they don't get listed here. You probably don't want to make your food supply more expensive when not trading anyways (i.e. at any point past the early game). Or if you still do, then you should adjust the quantity of each item accordingly (as does the aforementioned tweak). Adding modifiers to food won't improve the morale bonuses they provide, but will still make them more expensive.

Tweak 12 i)

To change the price of buying wine in taverns to increase the relation with the town - credits to Swadia Nutt

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

dlga_tavernkeeper_buy_drinks:tavernkeeper_buy_drinks_2 4095 1164  0 Of_course,_{reg63?my_lord:my_lady}._I_reckon_{reg5}_denars_should_be_enough_for_that._What_should_I_tell_the_lads?  1165  2 2133 2 144115188075855914 1000


2) And change that 1000 to something else you want. In case of other mods, you can find the value to be adjust at the same spot, in the line starting with dlga_tavernkeeper_buy_drinks:tavernkeeper_buy_drinks_2

Tweak 12 j)

To allow tavernkeepers to buy prisoners from you - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

With this tweak, you will no longer have to worry about not finding a ransom broker in time to sell your prisoners, since any tavernkeeper will buy them too for the same prices! The ending of the conversation won't be perfect though (I_will_be_staying_here_for_a_few_days._Let_me_know_if_you_need_my_services.), however nothing can be done without hurting the hint on ransom broker's travelling behaviour. If you still want to change that conversation, then just search for it as it is above in conversation.txt (you'll only find 1 instance of it) and change it to your liking. Note however that the same ending reply will be used for all ransom brokers too.

Files:

conversation.txt
(dialog_states.txt)
scripts.txt

1) Open conversation.txt, increase the 'conversation counter' at the top of the file (2nd line) by 2 (4152 -> 4154), then find the line that starts with dlga_tavernkeeper_buy_drinks_2:tavernkeeper_pretalk. Right after it, add these 2 lines as a new line each:

dlga_tavernkeeper_talk:ransom_broker_sell_prisoners 69631 1151  2 2159 1 72057594037927936 30 2 72057594037927936 1 I_have_prisoners_to_sell.  1206  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_tavernkeeper_talk:ransom_broker_sell_prisoners_all 69631 1151  2 2159 1 72057594037927936 30 2 72057594037927936 1 I_want_to_sell_all_my_prisoners.  1207  0 NO_VOICEOVER


If you don't like the conversations in bold, feel free to change them to something else! In case of other mods, the highlighted dialogue ID numbers have to be readjusted, in order to match the following entries seen in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++):

1151 (1 in each line) - tavernkeeper_talk
1206 - ransom_broker_sell_prisoners
1207 - ransom_broker_sell_prisoners_all

2) Next, open scripts.txt and find the following piece of code under the script called game_get_prisoner_price:

3 144115188075855892 360287970189640156 360287970189640166


Change the 360287970189640166 to 360287970189640565. In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the piece as follows in order to find it. So replace:

144115188075855892 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
360287970189640156 with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_ransom_broker_1 in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640166 with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the troop after trp_ransom_broker_10 (or simply the last ransom broker) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Tweak 12 k)

To be able to directly sell garrisoned prisoners to ransom brokers - credits to Dalion

With this tweak, whenever you choose the "sell all your prisoners" option upon talking to ransom brokers, not only the prisoners from your party will get sold, but also the ones from the garrison of the given town. That is, if the town belongs to you of course.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the script called sell_all_prisoners and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 15 (13 -> 28). Then find this piece:

1616 3 648518346341351424 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 3 0 1 3 936748722493063628 360287970189639680 1224979098644774912


2) And replace it with this:

1616 3 648518346341351424 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 3 0 4 0 2204 2 1224979098644774917 144115188075856143 1073742366 3 1224979098644774917 11 360287970189639680 541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680 1651 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075856143 7 3 1224979098644774919 0 1224979098644774918 1656 3 1224979098644774920 144115188075856143 1224979098644774919 2147485155 1 1224979098644774920 1657 3 1224979098644774921 144115188075856143 1224979098644774919 1 2 936748722493063192 1224979098644774920 2107 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774921 2105 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 1616 3 144115188075856143 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774921 3 0 3 0 1 3 936748722493063628 360287970189639680 1224979098644774912


Tweak 12 l)

To always get a peace treaty when asking for one - credits to Leonion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

With this tweak, you will always get a peace treaty whenever you ask for one from a king. Even when you are supporting a claimant as the leader of the rebellion, essentially making you king/queen of the rebel faction.

File: conversation.txt

1) Simply delete the 4 lines starting with these pieces respectively:

dlga_lord_ask_pardon:lord_pretalk

dlga_lord_ask_pardon:lord_pretalk.1

dlga_lord_ask_pardon:lord_pretalk.2

dlga_lord_ask_pardon:lord_pretalk.3


2) And decrease the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 4 (4152 -> 4148).

Tweak 12 m)

To change the prosperity loss of a town or a castle when one gets conquered - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

scripts.txt
menus.txt

1) For the case without the player's intervention (conquered by the AI), open scripts.txt and find this piece of code under the script called game_event_simulate_battle:

2105 2 144115188075856964


The prosperity loss will be the number right before it, which is -20 in case of PoP. Change it to your liking. In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above piece as follows in order to find it. So replace:

144115188075856964 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of newglob_total_prosperity_from_townloot in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

2) For the case when the player is participating in the siege, open menus.txt and find this piece of code under menu_castle_taken:

1 3 936748722493063624 144115188075856280


The prosperity loss will be the number right after it, which is -5 in case of PoP. Change it to your liking. In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above piece as follows in order to find it. So replace:

936748722493063624 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of change_center_prosperity script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856280 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 12 n)

To change the prosperity gain for villages upon completing certain quests and selling them goods - credits to TheMageLord and Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

conversation.txt
sripts.txt

1) To edit the prosperity increase from quests, open conversation.txt and find all the instances of the following piece of code:

1 3 936748722493063624 144115188075856143


The numbers directly after the above piece are the prosperity gains. These are (in the same order):

Deliver cattle: 4
Rescue the village elder's daughter: 1
Escort villagers to town: 3
Deliver grain: 4

Changes these numbers to your liking. In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above piece as follows in order to find them all. So replace:

936748722493063624 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of change_center_prosperity script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856143 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

As for which quest it is, you can figure out from the conversation dialogues.

2) To change the prosperity increase from selling goods to village elders, open scripts.txt and find this piece of code under the script called refresh_village_merchant_inventory:

3500 2123 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 3000 2122 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 3000


The 3500 is the minimum amount of gold that a village elder must have before prosperity can be increased through selling him trade goods. And the two instances of 3000 are the gold decrease required for 1 point of prosperity increase. So for example, if this value is set to 1000 and the village elder has 3700 gold (>3500), then the village would gain +3 prosperity after selling him trade goods worth of 3000 gold. In case of other mods, the local variables are probably different, but the highlighted values are easy to notice and they likely follow the same pattern.

Tweak 12 o)

To change the chance and prosperity loss of village infestations - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) Find these two pieces of code under the script called update_villages_infested_by_bandits:

2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 3

1 3 936748722493063624 1224979098644774912 -1


2) That 3 is the % chance of any village on the map becoming infested with bandits. 0 will eliminate bandit infestations, and 100 will make all villages infested all the time. Bandit infestations are refreshed every 72 hours by default. Lastly, that -1 in the end is the prosperity loss happening every 72 hours until a village remains infested with bandits. Change these values to your liking. In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above piece as follows in order to find it. So replace:

936748722493063624 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of change_center_prosperity script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 12 p)

To increase the prosperity of villages by investing money into them - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

What this tweak does: if it is your village OR a village that belongs to your own kingdom OR any other village that has a prosperity lower than 180, then you will be able to invest 5000 denars in it by talking to its elder. This will:

increase the prosperity of the village by 50 over time;
give you +1 honor;
increase your relation with the village by 10;
increase or decrease your relation with the owner of this village (unless it is you), depending on his personality (good lords will like what you did, bad lords will not)

You can repeat this action after the elder of the village has spent all the money you have given him, and of course if you still fulfill all the requirements. This action can be repeated infinitely on multiple villages at the same time. Still, you cannot raise the prosperity of a village to higher than 400. Don't worry about spending your money in vain though - there is a condition which will prevent the dialogue option from appearing if the given village reached a given prosperity cap (set to 380 by default).

Files:

simple_triggers.txt
dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open simple_triggers.txt and increase the number at the very top of the file by 1 (133 -> 134).

2) Then insert this trigger as a new line to the end of the file:

24.000000  17 6 3 1224979098644774922 648518346341351504 648518346341351594 561 3 1224979098644774922 150 1 2136 3 1224979098644774923 200 501 521 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774922 150 2110 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774924 2123 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774923 100 1 3 936748722493063624 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774925 2106 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774923 501 3 1224979098644774922 150 1224979098644774924 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2133 2 72057594037927940 1224979098644774925 2133 2 72057594037927941 1224979098644774924 2330 2 3 1224979098644774922 1106 1 1585267068834416744 3 0 3 0


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end of the file. In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above piece as follows. So replace/adjust:

648518346341351504 648518346341351594 party range to that of the first village from the lower end, and to that of the party after the last village (last village + 1) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 648518346341351424 + № of a party from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
936748722493063624 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of 'change_center_prosperity script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075856146 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
1585267068834416744 with the number you got for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_{!}{s3}_commander_of string from quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

3) Now open dialog_states.txt and add the following entry to the end of the file:

village_sponsor


4) Look at the serial number of the line you added and subtract 1 from it. Keep that number in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

5) Open conversation.txt, increase the counter found in the 2nd line of the file by 2 (4152 -> 4154)

6) Find the line that starts with "dlga_village_elder_talk:village_elder_trade_begin" and add the following two lines before it, as a new line each:

dlga_village_elder_talk:village_sponsor 69631 1508  8 2204 2 1224979098644774921 144115188075856143 1073741855 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567630 1073742365 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680 2147484209 3 144115188075856143 50 180 2147484209 3 144115188075856143 150 1 2149 2 1224979098644774922 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774922 5000 2147484209 3 144115188075856143 50 380 I'd_like_to_help_your_village_with_some_money_(5000_denars).  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_village_sponsor:village_elder_talk 4095 1874  0 Oh_my..._I_mean,_thank_you_my_{reg63?lord:lady}._This_is_very_generous_of_you.  1508  21 1529 2 360287970189639680 5000 501 3 144115188075856143 150 5000 1 2 936748722493063450 1 1 3 936748722493063444 144115188075856143 10 561 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639681 521 3 1224979098644774923 144115188075856143 7 520 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774923 52 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774924 3 1073741855 2 1224979098644774924 2 31 2 1224979098644774924 5 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 1224979098644774923 -5 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774924 6 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 1224979098644774923 5 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774924 7 1073741855 2 1224979098644774924 1 31 2 1224979098644774924 4 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 1224979098644774923 2 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER


If you wish, you may change the above values:

5000: Money spent (4 instances, change them all!)
1: Honor bonus
10: Relation bonus
180: Prosperity threshold
50: Prosperity bonus (2 instances, change them both!)
380: Prosperity cap used to disable the ability to give money to the village elder (useless to set above 400)

7) Lastly, make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line (1874) match the value calculated in point 4). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt. Otherwise the above will work as is. Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

1508 (1 instance in both lines) with the number you got for village_elder_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075856143 (5 instance in line 1; 4 instance in line 2) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
432345564227567630 (line 1) with the number you get for: 432345564227567616 + № of fac_player_supporters_faction from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
936748722493063450 (line 2) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_honor script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063444 (line 2) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_relation_with_center script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063695 (3 instances in line 2) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of troop_change_relation_with_troop script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 12 q)

To change the circumstances and effects of donating money to townsfolk and villagers - credits to Neptune and tommylaw

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) To guarantee the donation option to appear each time you talk to a villager/townsfolk, find these two lines:

dlga_town_dweller_ask_situation:town_dweller_talk 4095 1707  1 2147484209 3 144115188075856143 50 30 Times_are_hard,_{reg63?sir:madam}._We_work_hard_all_day_and_yet_we_go_to_sleep_hungry_most_nights.  1698  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_town_dweller_ask_situation:town_dweller_talk.1 4095 1707  1 2147484209 3 144115188075856143 50 70 Times_are_hard,_{reg63?sir:madam}._But_we_must_count_our_blessings.  1698  0 NO_VOICEOVER


And change both 1698 to 1708. This way, instead of the conversation getting closed after villagers/townsfolk reply, you will be directed to the option to pay them 300 denars to help them out. In case of other mods, simply find the two lines that start with dlga_town_dweller_ask_situation:town_dweller_talk and dlga_town_dweller_ask_situation:town_dweller_talk.1 respectively and adjust the highlighted dialogue ID number in both lines so that they match the town_dweller_poor entry seen in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

2) To change the amount of money you give to the poor, find this line:

dlga_town_dweller_poor:town_dweller_poor_paid 69631 1708  2 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 300 Then_take_these_300_denars._I_hope_this_will_help_you_and_your_family.  1709  1 1529 2 360287970189639680 300 NO_VOICEOVER


The 300 is the amount you pay, the 300 is the minimum amount of money you must have for them to ask for help, and the 300 is what is written in the actual conversation. Change all 3 instances together. In case of other mods, simply find the line that starts with dlga_town_dweller_poor:town_dweller_poor_paid in order to locate the 3 highlighted instances.

3) To edit the amount of relation points gained with the given town or village upon each time you help the poor, find this piece in the line that starts with dlga_town_dweller_poor_paid:

144115188075856280 1 1 2


And change that 1 to your liking. In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the piece as follows in order to find it. So replace:

144115188075856280 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

13. Kingdom and Fief Management (25)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
13 a) To be able to appoint your husband as minister
13 b) To make the 'prominent citizen' a full-pledged minister, even retroactively
13 c) To add more kingdom colors for the player's faction
13 d) To be able to hire multiple mercenary companies
13 e) To allow players as king/queen to access the war rooms within their kingdom's fiefs
13 f) To disable villages being automatically granted to a lord when assigning a castle/town right after capturing it
13 g) To change the way kings give fiefs to their vassals
13 h) To make conquered fiefs which got the appointment defered to a later point hire troops of your faction instead of the initial one
13 i) To make troops desert from the garrison of NPC-s when such fiefs don't have enough money to pay for the upkeep
13 j) To disable the disbanding of troops over lvl 31 from a garrison when assigning the fief to you or your husband
13 k) To disable the need to pay half of your husband's garrison wages as a female character
13 l) To send troops from your party to any walled fief you own
13 m) To make the troop-giving feature to a lord's garrison become mutual
13 n) To change the garrison size of walled fiefs
13 o) To increase the garrison limit of the Hideout
13 p) To speed up certain upgrade processes at the Hideout
13 q) To gain the ability to control the garrison of your villages
13 r) To change the amount and kind of recruits you can hire from villages
13 s) To change the effects of Watch Towers built in villages
13 t) To be able to control and manage your kingdom's (and faction's) militia patrols
13 u) To edit the notifications about enemies spotted near your fiefs
13 v) To change the building time, cost, auto-repairing frequency and repair cost of fief improvements
13 w) To be able to build fief improvements without having to visit the given fief
13 x) To increase the tendency of lords building fief improvements
13 y) To change the default training time of stewards


Tweak 13 a)

To be able to appoint your husband as minister - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

With this tweak, if you have a husband and he is in your own kingdom, then you can appoint him to be your minister instead of companions. After you do that, he will go to the capital and he will guard it (reinforce the garrison with his party) by remaining there until you appoint someone else.

Files:

conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter found in the 2nd line of this file by 1 (4147 -> 4148)

2) Find this line:

dlga_minister_talk:close_window 69631 273  0 That_is_all_for_now.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER


3) And replace it with this one:

dlga_minister_talk:close_window 69631 273  0 That_is_all_for_now.  6  2 2147483779 1 144115188075856280 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 NO_VOICEOVER


Make sure that you have a gap/space at the end of the line! In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to find it and have a correct replacement. So replace:

273 with the number you got for minister_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
6 with the number you got for close_window in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075856280 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855935 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_leave_encounter variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

4) Then find the line that starts with dlga_minister_replace_select:minister_replace_confirm.1, and add the following after it, as a new line:

dlga_minister_replace_select:minister_replace_confirm.2 69631 300  10 520 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 1506 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 540 3 1224979098644774912 2 2 31 2 1224979098644774913 0 540 3 1224979098644774912 8 -1 2173 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567630 2322 2 4 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 My_husband,_{s4}.  301  1 520 3 144115188075855960 360287970189639680 30 NO_VOICEOVER


Make sure that you have a gap/space at the end of the line. In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above line as follows, so replace:

300 with the number you got for minister_replace_select in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
301 with the number you got for minister_replace_confirm in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
432345564227567630 with the number you get for: 432345564227567616 + № of fac_player_supporters_faction from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
144115188075855892 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855960 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_minister variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

5) Now open scripts.txt, find the script that starts with npc_decision_checklist_party_ai -1 and increase the counter at the beginning of it by 5 (1067 -> 1072)

6) Then find this piece of code within the body of the script:

2320 2 16 216172782113788496 3 0 5 0


In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above line as follows, in order to find it. So replace:

216172782113788496 with the number you got for: 216172782113783805 + № of str_i_need_to_raise_some_men_before_attempting_anything_else string from strings.txt (line number in Notepad++)

7) And add the following code right after it:

31 2 144115188075855960 1224979098644774912 30 2 144115188075856292 0 2133 2 1224979098644774944 7 2133 2 1224979098644774945 144115188075856292 5 0


Make sure that you have a gap at the start and at the end of the above added code. In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above piece as follows, so replace:

144115188075855960 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_minister variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856292 (2 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_court variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 13 b)

To make the 'prominent citizen' a full-pledged minister, even retroactively - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) Find and remove the 5 instances of this piece of code:

33 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416


From the 5 lines starting with these respectively:

dlga_minister_talk:combined_political_quests
dlga_minister_talk:minister_diplomatic_kingdoms
dlga_minister_talk:minister_indict
dlga_minister_talk:minister_grant_fief
dlga_minister_talk:minister_grant_self_fief


Some tweaks may add lines that will have the same piece of code as above, don't touch those! Make sure that only 1 gap remains at the place of the removed content

2) Also, reduce the operation counters right before the removed piece by 1 (either 1 -> 0 or 18 -> 17). Beware that once replacing the prominent citizen with a companion - for whatever reasons - you will no longer be able to appoint him again as your minister!

3) To make the prominent citizen a choosable minister retroactively, find the line that starts with dlga_minister_replace_select:minister_replace_confirm.1 and add the following after it, as a new line:

dlga_minister_replace_select:minister_replace_confirm.2 81919 300  3 50 1 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640761 2322 2 4 1224979098644774912 {s4}  301  1 50 1 144115188075855960 NO_VOICEOVER 


4) In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows in order to find all instances or have a correct replacement. So replace:

144115188075855960 (point 1 & 3) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_minister variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
360287970189640185 (point 1) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the first companion in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640416 (point 1) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_heroes_end in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
300 (point 3) with the number you got for minister_replace_select in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
360287970189640761 (point 3) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_temporary_minister in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
301 (point 3) with the number you got for minister_replace_confirm in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 13 c)

To add more kingdom colors for the player's faction - credits to DarkOmegaMK2

This tweak basically allows the player to be able to choose the colors of various minor factions as his/her own after establishing a kingdom. As an extra, some previous color names or codes were made more appealing/unique, and a few unused ones were added as well. Colors used by specific factions are marked within parentheses. There are 43 new colors added with this tweak, totalling up to 67 when combined with the original colors. This should be enough.

File: conversation.txt

1) Increase the first number in the file by 43 (4152 -> 4195)

2) Find the section that starts with:

dlga_pop_change_color1:pop_change_color


2) Just below, replace these lines:

dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Buff  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15785090 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.1 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Yellow  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16772864 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.2 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Violet  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15631086 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.3 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Sea_Shell_Tan  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16774638 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.4 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Purple  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 9109759 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.5 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Turquoise  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 3200456 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.6 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Terra_Cotta  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14840411 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.7 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Teal  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 32896 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.8 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Sandy_Brown  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16032864 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.9 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Tangerine  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15893760 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.10 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Steel_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 4620980 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.11 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Salmon  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16747625 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.12 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Spring_Green  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 65407 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.13 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Black  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.14 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Dark_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 13209 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.15 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Blue_green  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 56797 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.16 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_White  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16777215 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.17 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Royal_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 4286945 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.18 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Red-Violet  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 13047173 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.19 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Ravenstern_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 6001381 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.20 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Empire_Yellow  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16763904 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.21 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Sarleon_Red  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16711680 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.22 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_D'Shar_Brown  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 12759680 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.23 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Fierdsvain_Green  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 245820 NO_VOICEOVER


3) With these:

dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Buff  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15785090 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.1 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Golden_Yellow  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16772864 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.2 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Violet  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15631086 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.3 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Seashell  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16774638 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.4 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Indigo  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 9109759 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.5 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Turquoise  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 3200456 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.6 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Terra_Cotta  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14840411 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.7 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Teal  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 32896 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.8 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Sandy_Brown  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16032864 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.9 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Tangerine  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15893760 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.10 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Steel_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 4620980 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.11 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Salmon  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16416882 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.12 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Spring_Green  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 65407 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.13 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Black  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.14 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Smalt_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 13209 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.15 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Bright_Turquoise  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 56797 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.16 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Royal_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 4286945 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.17 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Medium_Violet_Red  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 13047173 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.18 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Cornflower_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 6001381 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.19 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Tangerine_Yellow  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16763904 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.20 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Red  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16711680 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.21 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Ecru_Brown  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 12759680 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.22 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Dark_Gray  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 11184810 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.23 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Sarleon_Red  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14356246 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.24 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Ravenstern_Blue  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 1726646 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.25 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_D'Shar_Brown  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 8018725 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.26 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Fierdsvain_Green  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 2529536 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.27 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Empire_Yellow  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16768512 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.28 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Madang_Green_(Outlaws)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 12320665 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.29 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Copper_(Mystmountain_Bandits)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14322279 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.30 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Olive_Drab_(Forest_Bandits)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 7048739 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.31 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Mango_(Rebel_Peasants)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15628032 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.32 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Sunshade_(D'Shar_Raiders)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16754253 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.33 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Dark_Pastel_Green_(Noldor)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 245820 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.34 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Khaki_(Barclay)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15787660 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.35 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Orchid_Purple_(Background_Enemies)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 13395660 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.36 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Golden_Tainoi_(Mettenheim)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16764006 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.37 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Medium_Spring_Green_(Veccavia)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 65433 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.38 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Fuchsia_Purple_(Melitine)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 12080835 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.39 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Persian_Green_(Vanskerry)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 45958 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.40 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Gray_Blue_(Adventurer_Companies)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 8884412 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.41 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Brown_Red_(Rogue_Knights)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 12931923 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.42 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Carrot_(Mettenheim_Renegades)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16750899 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.43 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Orange_Red_(Jatu)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 11683369 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.44 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Dark_Red_(Red_Brotherhood)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 10027008 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.45 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Burnt_Orange_(Mystmountain_Tribes)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16740416 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.46 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Copper_Rose_(Singalians)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 10379360 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.47 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Dark_Purple_(Heretics)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 6108284 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.48 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Bilbao_Green_(Snake_Cult)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 4161536 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.49 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_White_(Inquisition)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16777215 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.50 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Dodger_Blue_(Dragons)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 2003199 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.51 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Tomato_Red_(Lions)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16737095 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.52 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Yellow_(Immortals)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16776960 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.53 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Light_Green_(Valkyries)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 9498256 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.54 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Golden_Rod_(Griffons)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14329120 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.55 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Canary_Yellow_(Falcons)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16777090 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.56 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Medium_Azure_(Raven_Spear)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 4286975 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.57 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Corn_Yellow_(Radiant_Cross)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16770650 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.58 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Medium_Sea_Green_(Clarion_Call)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 3978097 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.59 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Old_Lace_(Dawn)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 16643558 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.60 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Crimson_Red_(Ebony_Gauntlet)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14423100 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.61 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Gainsboro_Gray_(Shadow_Legion)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14474460 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.62 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Light_Periwinkle_(Silvermist)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 15066623 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.63 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Plum_(Eventide)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 14524637 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.64 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Persian_Red_(Phoenix)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 12005659 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.65 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Atomic_Gray_(Shadow_Wolves)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 4344397 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop_change_color:minister_pretalk.66 69631 1004  0 Change_the_color_to_Himalaya_Brown_(Scorpion_Assassins)  272  1 1276 2 432345564227567630 7496243 NO_VOICEOVER


4) Make sure that there are no empty lines left at the beginning or at the end of the copied content.

Notes:

Krakens use the same color as Valkyries
Barclay, Windriders and Deserters all use the same color

Tweak 13 d)

To be able to hire multiple mercenary companies - credits to Dalion

By default, you can hire only 1 mercenary company at a time. With this tweak, you will be able to hire multiple ones from among those that are available at the moment. There is no predefined value for the amount of hired mercenary companies, only a slot (meaning you either have a company hired or you don't), which will get disregarded below.

Note: the full support for hiring multiple mercenary companies is still missing from this tweak, you can only order tasks to the last one hired!

File: conversation.txt

Decrease the number in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4151), then find and remove this line as a whole:

dlga_pop_minister_hire_mercs:minister_pretalk 4095 284  4 520 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 161 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 132 1 1224979098644774912 2330 2 4 1224979098644774912 But_we_have_already_hired_the_{s4},_my_{reg63?King:Queen},_we_cannot_hire_more_mercenaries.  272  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 13 e)

To allow players as king/queen to access the war rooms within their kingdom's fiefs - credits to Dolmhold

By enabling the war room menu for your vassals' and unassigned walled fiefs' stewards within your kingdom, you gain access to the following justified actions:

Buy a baggage train
Recruit nobles
Create or dismantle a KO chapter
Induct troops into that KO
train the KO knights of the residing chapter
Enable or disable the automatic garrison training
Transfer all the troops from party to the garrison (to reinforce it quickly)

Just a headsup, this and the normal war room conversation will show up together in case of your own fiefs.

File: conversation.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153)

2) Then find the line that starts with dlga_steward_menu:pop2_war_room_menu, and add the following after it, as a new line:

dlga_steward_menu:pop2_war_room_menu_leader 69631 993  2 2204 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075856143 31 2 1224979098644774915 432345564227567630 As_{reg63?king:queen}_I_wish_to_inspect_the_War_room_of_this_fief.  991  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 13 f)

To disable villages being automatically granted to a lord when assigning a castle/town right after capturing it - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) Locate the script called give_center_to_lord -1

2) Decrease the first number in that script by 9 (194 -> 185)

3) Find and delete this piece of code from the body of the script:

4 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 6 3 1224979098644774942 648518346341351504 648518346341351594 541 3 1224979098644774942 120 1224979098644774912 2204 2 1224979098644774943 1224979098644774942 2147483679 2 1224979098644774943 1224979098644774920 1 4 936748722493063400 1224979098644774942 1224979098644774913 0 3 0 3 0


Make sure that there is 1 'space' character left at the end! In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above piece as follows. So replace/adjust:

648518346341351446 648518346341351504 party range to that of the first town from the lower end, and to that of the party after the last castle (last castle + 1) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 648518346341351424 + № of a party from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
648518346341351504 648518346341351594 party range to that of the first village from the lower end, and to that of the party after the last village (last village + 1) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 648518346341351424 + № of a party from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
936748722493063400 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of give_center_to_lord script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774912) might be different, but the structure and length of the piece to be found and deleted should be the same.

Warning: this tweak has a funny bug - if you add it before starting a new game, then at the start of the game, Balanli and Azgad (Sarleon villages) will belong to Ravenstern lords. This is not critical at all, and after somebody captures Sarleon, villages will switch their faction along with the town. My thanks to Tonitrus for reporting this bug.

Tweak 13 g)

To change the way kings give fiefs to their vassals - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too!
This tweak might not work due to the calculations below not being in use anymore (need to test)

The way kings give a piece of land to someone is by calculating a "score" for all vassals in the faction (including you). This score is based on renown, number of fiefs, whether or not the vassal captured the given fief (the one who starts the siege gets the credit), a lot of luck, and if it's you: a tiny addition from the king's relation with you. The remaining factors/calculations can be edited within TweakMB. The king then takes the vassal with the highest score and awards him/her the land in question.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find and observe these two pieces of code:

4 5 0 541 3 1224979098644774915 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774914 2 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 3 0 3 0 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 7 2120 3 1224979098644774918 500 1224979098644774917 2108 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 2136 3 1224979098644774919 50 100 2107 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774919 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774913 28 1224979098644774912 2107 2 1224979098644774918 3 2108 2 1224979098644774918 2

1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774921 72057594037927936 2107 2 1224979098644774921 2


2) The equation to determine the scores starts with a base value of 500, to which the renown rating gets added. It is then divided by a divisor, which has a base value of 1 ofc. This divisor may get increased by center points, based on the kind and amount of fiefs vassals have:

4 per each town
2 per each castle
1 per each village

Then a random number is picked between 50 and 100, which will be multiplied into the score. Btw, this is the big random part of the equation that frustrates many people. The script then checks whether or not the vassal captured the given fief personally (if he/she initiated the siege). If yes, then the score in the making gets multiplied by 3 and then divided by 2, effectively giving a 50% higher score. Lastly, for the player only, the relationship with the king gets multiplied by 2 and that result gets added on top of your score. However, considering that your score is going to be way up in the thousands, this last addition is pretty crappy by default, making the relationship with your king an almost non-existant factor. So the biggest factor is the random roll performed between 50 and 100.

3) Change the above values to your liking. As an example for the above equation, lets run a player with 500 renown, who owns 1 castle and 1 village and has been working his ass off for the king (100 relationship). After conquering another castle and requesting it, the score will look as follows, performed step by step:

500+500 = 1,000
1000/(1+2+1) = 1000/4 = 250
250 * [50-100] = [12,500 – 25,000]
[12,500 - 25,000] * 3/2 = [18,750 – 37,500]
[18,750 – 37,500] + 2*100 = [18,950 – 37,700]

Tweak 13 h)

To make conquered fiefs which got the appointment defered to a later point hire troops of your faction instead of the initial one - credits to Dalion

Files:

conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open conversation.txt and find this line:

dlga_declaration_of_indep3:declaration_of_indep3 4095 269  0 All_Hail_{reg63?King:Queen}_{playername}!_^^_Long_live_the_{reg63?King:Queen}!!!  269  9 2114 2 144115188075856171 65536 603 1 0 1506 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 600 1 1152921504606847611 5 0 600 1 1152921504606847610 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Replace it with this:

dlga_declaration_of_indep3:declaration_of_indep3 4095 269  0 All_Hail_{reg63?King:Queen}_{playername}!_^^_Long_live_the_{reg63?King:Queen}!!!  269  10 2114 2 144115188075856171 65536 603 1 0 1506 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 600 1 1152921504606847611 5 0 600 1 1152921504606847610 3 0 1 1 936748722493063217 NO_VOICEOVER 


2) Then open scripts.txt and find this piece:

620 21 1 1224979098644774912 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 521 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 -1 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 13 1652 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 14 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 432345564227567630 33 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 521 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 7 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 14 5 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 61 3 0 3 0


Replace it with this:

609 21 1 1224979098644774912 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 521 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 -1 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 13 1652 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 14 3 0


As always, watch for the gaps!

Tweak 13 i)

To make troops desert from the garrison of NPC-s when such fiefs don't have enough money to pay for the upkeep - credits to Leonion and VonDegurechaff

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Search for this trigger:

168.000000  47 6 3


2) Increase that 47 by 8 (47 -> 55)

3) Inside this trigger, find this piece of code:

2106 2 1224979098644774918 72057594037927936


4) Insert this code after it:

4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 0 2121 3 1224979098644774924 0 1224979098644774918 2107 2 1224979098644774924 100 2108 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774921 2110 2 1224979098644774924 7 1 4 936748722493063729 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774924 1 3 0


5) Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap before and after the inserted code

6) Warning: this tweak will drastically weaken towns/castles that have bad economy. Garrisons of such towns may drop to as low as 200 troops. To fix this, find "1000" inside the trigger we are talking about (there is only one 1000) and increase it to 2000. This value is the constant income that every town/castle receives regardless of its economy.

Tweak 13 j)

To disable the disbanding of troops over lvl 31 from a garrison when assigning the fief to you or your husband - credits to Dalion

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

32 2 1224979098644774916 31


2) And replace that 31 with 60

Tweak 13 k)

To disable the need to pay half of your husband's garrison wages as a female character - credits to Fandom User

Files:

presentations.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open presentations.txt and find the following piece under prsnt_budget_report:

2133 2 1224979098644774920 1 3 0


Change that 1 to 0

2) Next, open scripts.txt' and find the following piece in the body of the script called calculate_player_faction_wage:

2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 3 0


Once again, change that 1 to 0

Tweak 13 l)

To send troops from your party to any walled fief you own - credits to Leonion, VonDegurechaff and Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak will allow you to choose any troops from your party and send them to any walled fief you own. To do this, you need to talk to any village elder and pay him 500 denars. You cannot send more than one party at the same time. If the target fief is captured by an enemy before your troops get there, they will wait till you recapture the fief and only then join the garrison. The party of your troops will be neutral, nobody will attack them.

Files:

variables.txt
dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) Open variables.txt and add this to the very end of the file:

send_troops_tweak


Make sure to still have an empty line at the very end.

2) Open dialog_states.txt and add these 4 lines to the very end of the file:

send_reinf_to_fief1
send_reinf_to_fief2
send_reinf_to_fief3
send_reinf_to_fief4


3) Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

4) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 6 (4152 -> 4158)

5) Find the line that starts with dlga_village_elder_talk:village_elder_request_mission_ask and add these 6 lines after it as a new line each:

dlga_village_elder_talk:send_reinf_to_fief1 69631 1508  1 31 2 144115188075857320 0 I_want_to_send_troops_to_one_of_my_fiefs_and_I_want_you_to_provide_them_with_food_(500_denars)  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_send_reinf_to_fief1:send_reinf_to_fief2 4095 1874  0 Aye_{reg63?sir:madam}._Where_would_you_like_to_send_them?  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_send_reinf_to_fief2:send_reinf_to_fief3 77823 1875  6 50 1 1224979098644774912 33 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 521 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 7 31 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 2319 1 12 2330 2 12 1224979098644774912 {s12}  1876  1 50 1 144115188075855961 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_send_reinf_to_fief2:close_window.1 69631 1875  0 Never_mind.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_send_reinf_to_fief3:send_reinf_to_fief4 4095 1876  0 Who_would_you_like_to_send,_{reg63?sir:madam}?  1877  8 1100 2 648518346341351424 576460752303423586 2133 2 144115188075857320 72057594037927936 1617 1 144115188075857320 2056 1 144115188075857320 1640 2 144115188075857320 1 1641 2 144115188075857320 144115188075855961 1603 3 144115188075857320 65536 0 1529 2 360287970189639680 500 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_send_reinf_to_fief4:close_window 4095 1877  0 Will_be_done,_{reg63?sir:madam}.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


6) Make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line match the values calculated in point 3), and that the instances of 144115188075857320 match the formula down below. It is only needed to check them if you added something else to dialog_states.txt and variables.txt respectively, due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 2) with the number you got for send_reinf_to_fief1
1875 (line 2, 3 & 4) with the number you got for send_reinf_to_fief2
1876 (line 3 & 5) with the number you got for send_reinf_to_fief3
1877 (line 5 & 6) with the number you got for send_reinf_to_fief4
144115188075857320 (1 instance in line 1, 6 instances in line 5) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of send_troops_tweak variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

1508 (line 1) with the number you got for village_elder_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
648518346341351446 648518346341351504 (line 3) party range to that of the first town from the lower end, and to that of the party after the last castle (last castle + 1) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 648518346341351424 + № of a party from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
144115188075855961 (line 3 & 5) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of fief_selected variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
6 (line 4 & 6) with the number you got for close_window in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
576460752303423586 (line 5) with the number you got for: 576460752303423488 + № of pt_spy_partners template from party_templates.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

7) Open simple_triggers.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134)

8) Add this trigger to the very end of the file:

1.000000  19 4 0 32 2 144115188075857320 0 132 1 144115188075857320 2291 2 1224979098644774942 144115188075857320 130 2 144115188075857320 1224979098644774942 521 3 1224979098644774947 1224979098644774942 7 31 2 1224979098644774947 360287970189639680 1650 2 1224979098644774943 144115188075857320 6 3 1224979098644774944 0 1224979098644774943 1653 3 1224979098644774945 144115188075857320 1224979098644774944 1652 3 1224979098644774946 144115188075857320 1224979098644774944 1610 3 1224979098644774942 1224979098644774946 1224979098644774945 3 0 1232 1 144115188075857320 2133 2 144115188075857320 0 5 0 2147483780 1 144115188075857320 2133 2 144115188075857320 0 3 0


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end. Once again, in case you added something else to variables.txt due to another tweak, then make sure that all the instances of 144115188075857320 (11 in total) match the formula specified above.

Tweak 13 m)

To make the troop-giving feature to a lord's garrison become mutual - credits to Claus777

With this tweak, if you are visiting a lord in his own walled fief, then upon choosing the option "I want to reinforce your garrison here", you will also be ablo to take out the troops from his garrison. This will allow you to get rare household troops like Iron Circle Centurions in bigger numbers, or simply some more KO knights to reinforce your party for instance. But beware, since overusing this new option might be too much, as those troops would always come free, plus lords will automatically replenish their numbers in the garrison over time, making it an almost infinite source of strong troops.

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this line:

dlga_lord_give_troops_garrison:lord_pretalk 4095 590  0 Well,_the_garrison_can_use_some_good_soldiers._Thank_you.  227  1 2056 1 144115188075856280 NO_VOICEOVER


2) And replace it with this:

dlga_lord_give_troops_garrison:lord_pretalk 4095 590  0 Well,_the_garrison_can_use_some_good_soldiers._Thank_you.  227  1 2043 2 0 144115188075856280 NO_VOICEOVER


Tweak 13 n)

To change the garrison size of walled fiefs - credits to Dalion

This tweak requires a new game to take effect!

With this tweak, you can change the garrison size of towns and castles through editing the amount of time kingdom reinforcements get called. You see, the garrison size of walled fiefs is not set up by exact limits, but by the number of calls of the reinforcement script for them before it gets considered 'enough'. Keep in mind that the actual amount of reinforcements upon a script call scales with the player character's level. For castles, the reinforcement script gets called 18 times, for cities 40 times, and for capital towns (the initial town of kings) 48 times. That's the reason why towns usually have around twice as big garrisons as castles.

File: scripts.txt

1) In the body of the script called game_start, find this piece:

2133 2 1224979098644774972 18 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774930 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774972 40 1073741855 2 1224979098644774930 648518346341351446 1073741855 2 1224979098644774930 648518346341351450 1073741855 2 1224979098644774930 648518346341351451 1073741855 2 1224979098644774930 648518346341351453 31 2 1224979098644774930 648518346341351455 2133 2 1224979098644774972 48 3 0


2) Change the highlighted values according to the description above. Remember, you will need to start a new game to make the changes apply!

Tweak 13 o)

To increase the garrison limit of the Hideout - credits to lconracl

Files:

menus.txt
conversation.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) Open menus.txt and find these pieces of code:

100 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927969 50

100 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927970 50

100 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 50


2) The 100 is the limit after the improvement of the Hideout's garrison, and the 50 is the limit before that. Always change the same values together, for consistence. 9999 for an unlimited garrison size should be enough.

3) Now open conversation.txt, find this piece of code and apply the same changes to it as previously:

100 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927969 50


4) You might as well adjust the lower limit (50) in these two lines accordingly:

dlga_camp_master_upgrades_2_room:camp_master_upgrades_3_room 1191 1566  0 Yes,_{reg63?sir:madam},_I_am_aware_of_that._There_is_not_much_space_left_in_which_would_be_suitable_for_new_foundations._The_ground_is_simply_too_hard,_almost_entirely_rock_solid._As_you_probably_remember_from_my_reports,_a_while_ago_we_discovered_two_formerly_collapsed_castle_chambers._The_smaller_one_is_our_vault_now,_but_the_other_is_unused_at_the_moment.^^We_could_bring_that_room_to_its_former_glory_and_it_should_be_big_enough_to_accommodate_an_additional_50_troops._The_overall_cost_shouldn't_exceed_15000_denars._What_do_you_think?  1567  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_camp_master_upgrades_3_room:camp_master_pretalk 66727 1567  2 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 15000 Not_much_for_50_extra_beds._It_sounds_like_a_good_investment.  1556  3 1529 2 360287970189639680 15000 501 3 648518346341351599 251 1 1105 2 1585267068834417540 6737151 NO_VOICEOVER 


5) Lastly, open quick_strings.txt and locate this line:

qstr_Hidden_Base:_troops_ Hidden_Base:_troops_capacity_increased_by_50.


Adjust that 50 as well if needed.

Tweak 13 p)

To speed up certain upgrade processes at the Hideout - credits to Dalion and LieutenantNicolas

Files:

conversation.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) To start the reconstruction of Old Ruins without any supplies, open conversations.txt and find the following line:

dlga_camp_master_rebuild_4:camp_master_rebuild_5 1191 1547  0 Judging_by_the_amount_of_work_which_needs_to_be_done,_20_men_should_be_enough_to_make_this_place_up_and_running_within_two_weeks.^^We_would_need_tools,_strong_horses_for_some_heavy_lifting,_food_and_..._a_barrel_of_ale_to_keep_morale_high.  1548  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Replace it with this:

dlga_camp_master_rebuild_4:camp_master_start_build_1 1191 1547  0 I_have_everything_to_begin_construction,_{reg63?sir:madam},_including_the_men_and_tools_needed._We_should_be_ready_within_two_weeks.  1551  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


2) To change the amount of days the reconstruction of Old Ruins takes, find this line in conversation.txt:

dlga_camp_master_start_build_1:close_window 66727 1551  0 I_will_be_return.  6  7 506 3 504403158265495627 11 6 2272 1 144115188075857276 2105 2 144115188075857276 14 2319 1 3 2320 2 3 1585267068834417524 1113 4 504403158265495627 6 3 0 1907 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


That highlighted 14 is the amount of days. After changing it to a value of your liking, don't forget to adjust the text mentioning the time accordingly in the line from point 1) (two_weeks), as well as in the line prior to the one from this point in case you haven't applied point 1).

3) To speed up the stableboy's work, open conversation.txt and find the following piece:

4 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 31 2105 2 144115188075856285 5 2320 2 3 1585267068834417562 3 0 4 0 1073741855 2 144115188075856010 288230376151711932 1073741855 2 144115188075856010 288230376151711952 1073741855 2 144115188075856010 288230376151711950 31 2 144115188075856010 288230376151711969 4 0 31 2 144115188075856285 9 2106 2 144115188075856285 3 5 0 2106 2 144115188075856285 1 3 0 2320 2 4 1585267068834417563 5 0 33 3 144115188075856010 288230376151711973 288230376151711982 2107 2 144115188075856285 3


The standard upgrade time formula for horses is: 4 days as a base + 5 if the horse is swaybacked - 1 if it is a Jatu horse or - 3 if the sum equals 9 (horse is swaybacked and non-jatu). The result is then multiplied by 3 if it is a Noldor, demonic, fallen, or Comet Courser. In reality, the latter condition just checks if the horse's sequence number is equal to or higher than 229, which translates to 229 (Noldor_Steppe_Pony in Morgh's Editor) + 288230376151711744 (troop constant) = 288230376151711973. Changing that 9 has to be performed so that it always equals to 4 + 5, otherwise the belonging discount will not be applied properly.

4) In case you changed 5 to a different number, then you also need to open quick_strings.txt and adjust it accordingly in this line:

qstr__I_have_to_add_5_day _I_have_to_add_5_days_as_this_horse_is_looking_very_unwell.


5) To speed up the blacksmith's work, open conversation.txt and find the following piece:

400 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 1 31 2 1224979098644774912 21 2105 2 144115188075856285 100 2320 2 3 1585267068834417552 3 0 1570 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856010 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 13 2105 2 144115188075856285 100 2320 2 4 1585267068834417553 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774913 17 31 2 1224979098644774913 16 2105 2 144115188075856285 300


One day is equal to 100 units in the above code. Which means that the standard upgrade time formula for weapons and armor is: 4 days as a base + 1 for cracked and tattered equipment + 1 for chest armor + 3 for firearms.

6) Once again, in case you changed 1 to a different number, then you also need to open quick_strings.txt and adjust the amount of days accordingly in this line:

qstr__I_would_need_an_ext _I_would_need_an_extra_day_-_armors_require_more_work.


7) To change the crafting time of the Pendor Royal Steed, open conversation.txt and find the following line:

dlga_camp_blacksmith_quest_ha_4:close_window 1192 1579  0 This_steed_and_the_barding_matches_almost_perfectly!_^^Armor_is_nearly_restored_and_only_few_small_alterations_are_needed._I_believe_everything_should_be_ready_within_two_weeks.  6  8 506 3 504403158265495628 11 4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711884 2120 3 1224979098644774912 288230376151711972 1 501 3 648518346341351599 262 1224979098644774912 2105 2 144115188075857276 1400 2319 1 3 2320 2 3 1585267068834417547 1113 4 504403158265495628 3 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


That highlighted 1400 is the amount of days the crafting takes, where 100 unit stands for one day (taking 14 days by default). Likewise, adjust the highlighted text of two_weeks to match with that of the set value.

8) Lastly, in case you changed 1400 to a different number, then you also need to open quick_strings.txt and adjust the amount of days accordingly in this line as well:

qstr_Horse_and_barding_sh Horse_and_barding_should_be_ready_within_two_weeks.


Tweak 13 q)

To gain the ability to control the garrison of your villages - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

The primary purpose of this tweak is to give the player a place where he/she can store units until a castle or a town becomes available. Keep in mind that this tweak won't turn villages into quasi-castles. Enemy lords won't besiege your villages, but the tweak will help you in battles that take place in your village's scene after you managed to put some strong units into the garrison. Which means that the exchange of troops in the garrison is mutual: you can give in and take out troops. So those dozens of peasants who sit in villages will be available for you completely free of charge. This is especially handy if someone wants to field only Pendor or female troops right from the beginning, as farmers and peasant women are a rather scarce supply early on. After you take those peasants out of the garrison, the village will start to produce new ones, so this is a fairly profitable and permanent source of recruits. Additionally, the player does not have to pay a single denar for the upkeep of the village's garrison, regardless of its composition and size. In essence, this is a similar deal to making the garrison of the KO stronghold accessible.

File: menus.txt

1) Look for the main section called menu_village. At the very end of it, you'll find a submenu counter. Like so:

2133 2 144115188075856246 1 3 0 13


2) Increase that counter (13 in PoP) by 1 (13 -> 14). Then, find this piece:

3 0  .  mno_village_center


3) And replace it with this:

3 0  .  mno_village_manage_garrison  4 2147484189 3 144115188075856143 35 2 2147484189 3 144115188075856143 35 1 2147484209 3 144115188075856143 39 1 541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680  Manage_the_garrison.  1 2043 1 1  .  mno_village_center

Note: villages will NOT display the composition of their garrison when you hover the cursor on them on the world map!

4) In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the 4 instances of 144115188075856143, so that they correspond to the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 13 r)

To change the amount and kind of recruits you can hire from villages - credits to TheMageLord, Dalion and Leonion

Point 2) and 3) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Note: everything else on the subject that cannot be found here is editable with TweakMB!

Files:

scripts.txt
menus.txt

1) By default, there is a 20% chance for conquered villages to offer recruits belonging to their original faction. To remove or guarantee that possibility, open scripts.txt and under the script called update_volunteer_troops_in_village, find this piece of code:

4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774913 80


Change the 80 to 100 to remove, and to 0 to guarantee it.

2) To change how many and what tier of recruits are available from villages, find this piece of code under the same update_volunteer_troops_in_village script:

2107 2 1224979098644774924 3 2120 3 1224979098644774925 2 1224979098644774919


By default, the game multiplies the total amount of available troops by 3, and then divides it by 2+tier. So for hiring tier 4 recruits, the multiplier is 3/(2+4) = 3/6 = 1/2. In case of other mods, the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774924) might be different, but the structure is likely the same, and there should be only 1 of such instance under the update_volunteer_troops_in_village script.

3) Also, you can make a single troop of your choice be recruitable from any village through its menu. To do so, open menus.txt and under menu_recruit_volunteers, find this piece of code:

521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 92


Replace it with this:

2133 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639735


Then find this piece:

Recruit_them_({reg6}_denars).  2 1 1 936748722493063621 2060 1 864691128455135354


And replace it with this:

Recruit_them_({reg6}_denars).  12 2133 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639735 521 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 93 1633 2 1224979098644774914 648518346341351424 2110 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774914 2149 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639680 2123 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 20 2110 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 1610 3 648518346341351424 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 501 3 144115188075856143 93 -1 2122 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 20 1529 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774917 2060 1 864691128455135354


The 360287970189639735 is the troop set, which is a Farmer in this case (360287970189639680 + 55 = 360287970189639735). You can change him to whoever you want by adding the troop's sequence number (that you can see in Morgh's Editor) to 360287970189639680 and replacing both values with the result. Peasant Woman would be 360287970189639916 and Noldor Hunter would be 360287970189639942. Don't worry, you will remain capable to recruit the regular faction troops by asking directly the village elder. This is the only way you can recruit troops for a special playthrough (e.g. Pendor only, female only, Noldor only, etc.), without hurting the original recruitment system.

4) In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the pieces from point 3) as follows, in order to find them and have a correct replacement. So, replace:

144115188075856143 (3 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
360287970189639735 (2 instances) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the troop of your choice in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
936748722493063621 (1 instance) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of village_recruit_volunteers_recruit script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
864691128455135354 (2 instances) with the number you get for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_village menu from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 13 s)

To change the effects of Watch Towers built in villages - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

File: scripts.txt

1) The modifier for the time it takes to loot the village compared to the case without a tower getting built can be found here:

2107 2 1224979098644774921 2 2108 2 1224979098644774921 3


The first number is a multiplier, while the second one is a divider. The modifier is the result of these two operations, so 2/3 by default. What it does is that it slows down the raiding progress by multiplying it with the set rate. So right now, it takes 50% more time to loot a village with a watch tower being built: 100 raid_progress * 2/3 = 67 raid_progress ==>> 67 * 1.5 = 100. In short, just consider the modifier set to be a reciprocal time multiplier: 2/3 set ==>> 3/2 time required (+50%).

2) The multiplier for the spotting distance compared to the case without a tower getting built can be found here:

2107 2 1224979098644774915 2 5 0


It's the 2. Change it to your liking (3 will increase the spotting range 3 times)

Tweak 13 t)

To be able to control and manage your kingdom's (and faction's) militia patrols - credits to Leonion, VonDegurechaff and Claus777

This tweak adds 3 basic commands (dialogue options) to militia patrols of your own kingdom (and the faction you joined, see point 5):

"hold position" (the patrol will hold position ignoring all the enemies, yet scaring away weaker parties);
"return to patrolling" (the patrol will return to patrolling around the village in a smaller radius);
"follow me" (the patrol will follow you but ignore everybody; this option is only added to move patrols to the desired location).

And also, it allows you to manage the prisoners and party members of all your militia patrols.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) To add the 3 basic commands, first open dialog_states.txt and add the following 3 entries to the end of the file:

militia_stop
militia_patrol
militia_followme


2) Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Then open conversation.txt and find this line:

dlga_militia_give_troops_continue:manhunter_talk_b 4095 118  0 Anything_else,_{reg63?M'Lord:M'Lady}?  114  0 NO_VOICEOVER


4) Add the following 6 lines after the previous line, as a new line each:

dlga_manhunter_talk_b:militia_stop 69631 114  3 31 2 144115188075856957 432345564227567630 2290 2 1224979098644774927 144115188075856280 2147483679 2 1224979098644774927 0 I_want_you_to_hold_this_position.  1874  5 1640 2 144115188075856280 0 1606 2 144115188075856280 15 1607 2 144115188075856280 15 1639 2 144115188075856280 0 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_militia_stop:close_window 4095 1874  0 Yes,_my_liege.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_manhunter_talk_b:militia_patrol 69631 114  3 31 2 144115188075856957 432345564227567630 2290 2 1224979098644774927 144115188075856280 2147483679 2 1224979098644774927 3 I_want_you_to_start_patrolling.  1875  9 1640 2 144115188075856280 3 1643 2 144115188075856280 2 521 3 1224979098644774928 144115188075856280 123 1641 2 144115188075856280 1224979098644774928 1603 3 144115188075856280 65536 0 1639 2 144115188075856280 50 1606 2 144115188075856280 8 1607 2 144115188075856280 9 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_militia_patrol:close_window 4095 1875  0 Yes,_my_liege.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_manhunter_talk_b:militia_followme 69631 114  3 31 2 144115188075856957 432345564227567630 2290 2 1224979098644774927 144115188075856280 2147483679 2 1224979098644774927 10 I_want_you_to_follow_me.  1876  6 1640 2 144115188075856280 10 1641 2 144115188075856280 648518346341351424 1606 2 144115188075856280 8 1607 2 144115188075856280 9 1639 2 144115188075856280 0 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_militia_followme:close_window 4095 1876  0 Yes,_my_liege.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


5) Alternatively, as indicated by the tweak's title, you can expend this feature to the faction you joined as a vassal, by replacing each of the 3 instances of 3 31 2 144115188075856957 432345564227567630 with this:

4 1073741855 2 144115188075856957 432345564227567630 31 2 144115188075856957 144115188075856294


Watch for the gaps, so that 2 remains before, and 1 after the replaced part!

6) Make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line (3 pairs) match the values calculated in point 2). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt. Otherwise the above will work as is.

7) Lastly, increase the counter found in the 2nd line of conversation.txt by 6 (4152 -> 4158)

8) To manage the party of militia patrols, find this line in conversation.txt:

dlga_militia_give_troops:militia_give_troops_continue 4095 117  0 Blessings_upon_you_{reg63?M'Lord:M'Lady},_we_can_always_use_more_men._(max_100)  118  1 2056 1 144115188075856280 NO_VOICEOVER


9) And replace it with this:

dlga_militia_give_troops:militia_give_troops_continue 4095 117  0 Blessings_upon_you_{reg63?M'Lord:M'Lady},_we_can_always_use_more_men._(max_100)  118  1 2043 2 0 144115188075856280 NO_VOICEOVER


Tweak 13 u)

To edit the notifications about enemies spotted near your fiefs - credits to VonDegurechaff and Vetrogor

File: scripts.txt

1) To edit the size categories, under the process_alarms script, find this piece of code:

500 1106 2 1585267068834415021 16732240 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774936 1000 1106 2 1585267068834415022 16732240 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774936 2000 1106 2 1585267068834415023 16732240 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774936 4000 1106 2 1585267068834415024 16732240 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774936 8000 1106 2 1585267068834415025 16732240 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774936 16000 1106 2 1585267068834415026 16720418 5 0 1106 2 1585267068834415027 16720418 3 0 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774936 2000 541 3 1224979098644774913 7 360287970189639680 600 1 1152921504606847259 3 0 3 0


The highlighted black numbers above represent the strength of the different parties that were spotted close to the fiefs in your possession:

500 - Small bands of enemies spotted near ...
1000 - Enemy patrols spotted near ...
2000 - Medium-sized groups of enemies spotted near ...
4000 - Significant group of enemies spotted near ...
8000 - Army of enemies spotted near ...
16000 - Large army of enemies spotted near ...
>16000 (not present directly) - Great host of enemies spotted near ...

Change them at your will!

2) To reduce the amount of notifications, you can make the warnings pop up only when enemy patrols and warbands are within a radius of 30 and 60 respectively. To do this, first increase the counter at the start of the process_alarms script by 6 (171 -> 177), then find these two pieces of code:

1106 2 1585267068834415021 16732240

1106 2 1585267068834415022 16732240


Replace them with these two respectively:

4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774934 30 1106 2 1585267068834415021 16732240 3 0

4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774934 60 1106 2 1585267068834415022 16732240 3 0


Adjust the radiuses if you'd like.

3) To disable a given notification, delete the piece in red after the designated party strength value. As for parties above 16,000 strength, delete the part in orange. For each deleted notification, reduce the first number in the body of the script (171) by 1, and by 2 in case of the notification for "Great host of enemies" (marked with orange)

4) To change the enemy party strength limit that is causing a sound to be played when getting near your fiefs, you'll need to adjust the highlighted 2000 to something else from the above list (500 - 16,000). You may also remove the sound getting played for these notifications by deleting everything marked with blue and decreasing the first number in the body of the script (171) by 5.

Tweak 13 v)

To change the building time, cost, auto-repairing frequency and repair cost of fief improvements - credits to BananaFruit, Damon, VonDegurechaff and Димасик

Point 1) of this tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

First things first, it is worth noting the unfairness of enemy lords' tendency to primarily target your own villages to raid. Upon doing so, usually 4-6 of your fief improvements will get damaged, costing you extra money to repair. The village elder should arrange the repairs freely, otherwise you will never make a profit from owning villages due to the repair costs outweighting the yields.

Files:

menus.txt
simple_triggers.txt
scripts.txt

1) For the building time and cost, open menus.txt and search for the following piece in the line starting with menu_center_improve:

20 1224979098644774915 2107 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 2108 2 1224979098644774912 20 2123 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 150 2105 2 1224979098644774917 3


The highlighted and colored numbers mean the following:

The 150 is a divisor for the time of construction, and it controls the amount of buildable portions that you can get done under 1 day. By default, under 1 day, 150 denars of worth can be built (so a building that costs 6000 denars would take 40 days to build without any bonuses). Increase this value to decrease the building time. For example, replacing 150 with 300 roughly halves your building time.
The number 3 in the end is the number of days added on top of the previous calculation. You can change it to 0, so that not a single day gets added in the end as an extra.
The two numbers of 20 control the way how the engineer skill influences the construction times and costs (at the same time). Remember that it's the village elder's / castle steward's Engineer skill that is considered for calculations, not the player's! The steward's Engineer skill gets subtracted from the first 20, and then gets divided by the second 20. By default - 10 points of Engineer skill = 50% reduction of time and cost ([20-10]/20). You can change both values ​​of 20 to 15, so that 10 Engineer points will give only 1/3 of time and money expenses, or from 20 to 12 for 1/6 of the expenses. Just do not change them to 10 or less - the improvements will then be instant and free, which is just silly.

In case of other mods, the structure is probably the same, but the values and local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774915) are surely different. For example in Native, the 150 is actually 100.

2) For the auto-repairing frequency, open simple_triggers.txt and find this line:

168.070000  1 1 1 936748722493063850


Lower that highlighted value (time expressed in hours) to increase the auto-repairing frequency

3) To remove the repair cost, open scripts.txt and decrease the counter at the beginning of the script called auto_repair_buildings by 1 (65 -> 64). Then find and delete this piece of code from the body of the script:

1529 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774921


Make sure that only 1 gap remains at the place of the deleted piece!

Tweak 13 w)

To be able to build fief improvements without having to visit the given fief - credits to VonDegurechaff and Dalion

To be able to use this option, you'll need to own a walled fief first. Then go to your steward, select a fief of yours, build the improvement and you'll return to the main menu of the fief you are in if it was a castle or town you selected. In case of villages, you'll be pulled back to the world map instead, to prohibit exploits such as accessing recruits, supplies, quests, etc. from the distance.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt
menus.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add these 3 lines to the very end of the file:

villages_up
villages_up1
villages_up2


2) Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Open conversation.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 6 (4152 -> 4158), and add these 6 lines to the end of the file as a new line each:

dlga_steward_menu:villages_up 69631 993  0 I_want_to_build_a_fief_improvement.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_villages_up:villages_up1 4095 1874 0 Of_course_{reg63?My_Lord:My_Lady}._Which_fief_shall_it_be?  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_villages_up1:villages_up2 77823 1875  5 50 1 1224979098644774912 33 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 541 3 1224979098644774912 7 360287970189639680 2319 1 12 2330 2 12 1224979098644774912 {s12}  1876  5 50 1 144115188075855961 2133 2 144115188075855914 144115188075856280 2133 2 144115188075856280 144115188075855961 2133 2 144115188075856192 864691128455135389 2060 1 864691128455135362 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_villages_up1:villages_up2.1 77823 1875  6 50 1 1224979098644774912 33 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351504 648518346341351594 541 3 1224979098644774912 7 360287970189639680 541 3 1224979098644774912 35 0 2319 1 12 2330 2 12 1224979098644774912 {s12}  1876  5 50 1 144115188075855961 2133 2 144115188075855914 144115188075856280 2133 2 144115188075856280 144115188075855961 2133 2 144115188075856192 864691128455135354 2060 1 864691128455135362 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_villages_up1:close_window 69631 1875 0 Never_mind.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_villages_up2:close_window 4095 1876  0 Very_well_{reg63?My_Lord:My_Lady}._After_choosing_the_improvement,_your_build_orders_will_be_sent_out_right_away.  6  2 2133 2 72057594037927995 1 1907 1 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


4) Make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line match the values calculated in point 2). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 2) with the number you got for villages_up
1875 (line 2, 3, 4 & 5) with the number you got for villages_up1
1876 (line 3, 4 & 6) with the number you got for villages_up2

5) Lastly, open menus.txt and find the following piece of code:

mno_go_back_dot  0  Go_back.  1 2060 1 144115188075856192


6) Replace it with this:

mno_go_back_dot  0  Go_back.  13 2133 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856192 4 0 31 2 72057594037927995 1 2133 2 72057594037927995 0 2133 2 144115188075856280 144115188075855914 4 0 541 3 144115188075855961 0 4 2133 2 1224979098644774912 864691128455135495 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 864691128455135389 3 0 3 0 2060 1 1224979098644774912


Tweak 13 x)

To increase the tendency of lords building fief improvements - credits to Leonion, Dalion and VonDegurechaff

There are 2 ways to affect lords on the matter:

train their stewards (you need to be in the same faction for that!)
increase the frequency of them building

Files:

conversation.txt
menus.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) By training the stewards of fellow lords and vassals to a higher Engineer skill, you'll ensure that they can build all fief improvements (to get their benefits) and that the auto-repairing rate is at the maximum possible. As a compensation, you'll also get the usual relation increases with the given fiefs for spending your own time and money on training those stewards. To do so, open conversation.txt and find these two pieces:

dlga_village_elder_talk:village_elder_menu3 69631 1508  6 541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680

dlga_steward_menu:steward_menu3 69631 993  5 541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680


Replace them respectively with these two:

dlga_village_elder_talk:village_elder_menu3 69631 1508  6 31 2 144115188075856957 144115188075856294

dlga_steward_menu:steward_menu3 69631 993  5 31 2 144115188075856957 144115188075856294


Watch for the gaps! Then open menus.txt and find these two pieces:

541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680  Train_your_village_steward.

35 5 541 3 144115188075856143 295 1 541 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639680


And replace them respectively with these two:

31 2 144115188075856957 144115188075856294  Train_your_village_steward.

35 5 541 3 144115188075856143 295 1 31 2 144115188075856957 144115188075856294


2) To increase the frequency of lords buildings fief improvements, open simple_triggers.txt and find this line:

480.200000  1 1 1 936748722493063851


Lower that highlighted value (time expressed in hours) to increase the fief-building frequency

Tweak 13 y)

To change the default training time of stewards - credits to Cemorth

File: menus.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

72057594037927937 17 2133 2 72057594037927944 18 2133 2 72057594037927945


2) That 18 is your default training time, expressed in hours. Change it to your liking

14. Quests (7)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
14 a) To change the number of days needed for repeating certain quests
14 b) To change the timer after which kings, lords, ladies and village elders are forced to offer a new quest
14 c) To change the honor increase/decrease upon certain quests
14 d) To change the amount of right to rule lost when the "Resolve dispute" quest gets aborted or expires
14 e) To change the rank of soldiers needed in the "capture certain amount of enemy prisoners" quest
14 f) To make guildmasters always offer another quest once you turn one down
14 g) To fix some guildmaster quests


Tweak 14 a)

To change the number of days needed for repeating certain quests - credits to TheMageLord, Alex Toews and SirArtyr

Part 2) of this tweak is likely compatible with other mods too that have Native quests

Files:

scripts.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open scripts.txt and find this piece of code in the body of the script called get_quest -1:

70 50 0 2133 2 1224979098644774935 72057594037927969 2133 2 1224979098644774936 72057594037927970 2133 2 1224979098644774938 30 2133 2 1224979098644774939


From that point onwards, search for the highlighted piece only, that being 2133 2 1224979098644774939. This way you will be able to find the timers for the following quests in order, that come right after the highlighted pieces you searched for:

Village elder quests:

1. Deliver grain: 3
2. Deliver cattle: 5
3. Train peasants: 5

2) Then we jump to another section, so next, find this piece under the same script:

1224979098644774938 7 2133 2 1224979098644774939


And once again, from this point onwards, search for the highlighted piece only, that being 2133 2 1224979098644774939. The timers after them will be for the following quests in order:

Guildmaster quests:

4. Deliver wine to tavern: 20
5. Troublesome bandits: 30
6. Rescue kidnapped girl: 30
7. Move cattle: 20
8. Persuade lords to make peace: 100
9. Deal with looters: 30
10. Deal with night bandits: 15

Lady quests:

11. Rescue prisoner lord: 73
12. Deliver message to prisoner lord: 30
13. Duel for lady: 50

Enemy lord quests:

14. Lend surgeon: 50

Lord quests:

15. Meet spy in enemy town: 50
16. Raid caravan to start war: 100
17. Deliver message to friendly lord: 10
18. Escort lady: 30
19. Xxx: 10 (I don't know this one)
20. Train troops: 15
21. Collect taxes: 20
22. Hunt down fugitive: 30
23. Kill local merchant: 30
24. Bring back runaway serfs: 20
25. Follow spy: 50
26. Capture enemy lord: 80
27. Lend companion: 30
28. Collect debt from another lord: 20
29. Incriminate loyal commander: 180
30. Capture prisoners: 20

3) For the renown quest of Knighthood Orders, open conversation.txt and find this piece of code:

506 3 504403158265495618 24 15


Change the above values to your liking (0 to make them instantly repeatable)

Tweak 14 b)

To change the timer after which kings, lords, ladies and village elders are forced to offer a new quest - credits to Leonion

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find the line that starts with this:

36.000000  6 6 3 1224979098644774912 


2) The 36 is the aforementioned timer, expressed in hours. Change it to your liking (reduce it to make the above NPCs offer quests more often)

Tweak 14 c)

To change the honor increase/decrease upon certain quests - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) Find the following pieces of codes under the given dialogues in conversation.txt:

1. dlga_lord_start:lord_pretalk - cause provocation to start war - success
1 2 936748722493063450 -5

2. dlga_lord_start:lord_generic_mission_completed.1 - incriminate a lord - success
1 2 936748722493063450 -10

3. dlga_lord_start:close_window - incriminate a lord - failure
1 2 936748722493063450 5

4. dlga_lord_hunt_down_fugitive_reward_reject:lord_pretalk - kill fugitive - success (decline reward)
1 2 936748722493063450 3

5. dlga_lord_persuade_lords_to_make_peace_no_pay:close_window - persuade lords to make peace - success (decline reward)
1 2 936748722493063450 3


2) For the abort/expiration of the quest to join a faction, find this piece in scripts.txt, under the script called abort_quest:

1 2 936748722493063450 -5


3) The numbers in the end of each piece is the honor you get or lose. Change these values to your liking (can be negative, positive and 0 as well). The remaining quests about getting or losing honor points are editable in TweakMB, so they won't be listed here. In case of other mods, you have to adjust the above pieces as follows in order to find them all:

936748722493063450 (scripts.txt): 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_honor (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Keep in mind that the honor values might be different.

Tweak 14 d)

To change the amount of right to rule lost when the "Resolve dispute" quest gets aborted or expires - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the first instance of this piece of code:

2133 2 1224979098644774925 -2 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0


2) That -2 is the amount of right to rule you lose. Change it to your liking.

Tweak 14 e)

To change the rank of soldiers needed in the "capture certain amount of enemy prisoners" quest - credits to Hardrada

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

45 1 2136 3 1224979098644775003 42


2) The game picks a troop type from tier 2 to tier 5 by default. 45 refers to tier 5 troops, and 42 refers to tier 2 troops. For example, changing 45 to 44 and 42 to 41 will make the game choose a troop from tiers 1 to 4 instead. Adjust this as you wish. In case of other mods, the highlighted variable (1224979098644775003) might be different, but there should be only 1 instance of 45 1 2136 3 nonetheless.

Tweak 14 f)

To make guildmasters always offer another quest once you turn one down - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code

dlga_mayor_talk:merchant_quest_requested 69631 1390  3 2240 1 1224979098644774912 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856101 144115188075855892 Do_you_happen_to_have_a_job_for_me?


2) Decrease that 3 to 2 and delete the part in red. Also, make sure that there is exactly 1 gap/space left between the remaining fragments. In case of other mods, the structure is likely the same, so just find the line that starts with dlga_mayor_talk:merchant_quest_requested.

Tweak 14 g)

To fix some guildmaster quests - credits to Dalion

Point 1) and 3) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

There are some problems with guildmaster quests:

The "Track Down Bandits" quest fails if the target party gets eliminated by someone else than the player
The target party of the above quest can turn out to be a unique spawn, which the player won't be able to deal with for a good while, so the quest will either fail or occupy the opportunity of other quests in the meantime
The target parties of the "Deal with Looters" quest are hard or impossible to catch with your full party, needing you to drop almost everyone off, which is a chore. Furthermore, there's a high chance that someone else will catch those looters before killing enough of them, ending up with a quest fail.

This tweak aims at fixing all of the above issues, independently from each other.

Files:

conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) To make the target party of the "Track Down Bandits" quest be neutral to everyone but the player, open conversation.txt and find this line:

dlga_merchant_quest_track_bandits_choice:merchant_quest_track_bandits_brief 69631 1457  0 Aye,_I'll_do_it.  1454  12 2133 2 144115188075856102 0 2133 2 144115188075856101 144115188075855892 526 3 1224979098644774912 504403158265495607 8 1603 3 1224979098644774912 262144 1 506 3 504403158265495607 8 144115188075856112 506 3 504403158265495607 6 144115188075855892 506 3 504403158265495607 12 144115188075856280 2342 2 8 144115188075856280 2330 2 9 1224979098644774912 1290 1 504403158265495607 2320 2 2 216172782113788389 1 3 936748722493063555 504403158265495607 144115188075855892 NO_VOICEOVER 


Replace it with this:

dlga_merchant_quest_track_bandits_choice:merchant_quest_track_bandits_brief 69631 1457  0 Aye,_I'll_do_it.  1454  13 2133 2 144115188075856102 0 2133 2 144115188075856101 144115188075855892 526 3 1224979098644774912 504403158265495607 8 1603 3 1224979098644774912 262144 1 1620 2 1224979098644774912 432345564227567619 506 3 504403158265495607 8 144115188075856112 506 3 504403158265495607 6 144115188075855892 506 3 504403158265495607 12 144115188075856280 2342 2 8 144115188075856280 2330 2 9 1224979098644774912 1290 1 504403158265495607 2320 2 2 216172782113788389 1 3 936748722493063555 504403158265495607 144115188075855892 NO_VOICEOVER 


In case of other mods, find the conversation line starting with dlga_merchant_quest_track_bandits_choice:merchant_quest_track_bandits_brief and increase the operation counter 2 numbers after Aye,_I'll_do_it. by 1 (12 -> 13 in case of PoP). Then find this piece in the same line:

1603 3 1224979098644774912 262144 1


And add this right after it, separated by 1 gap from each side:

1620 2 1224979098644774912 432345564227567619


You'll also need to replace this number:

432345564227567619 with the number you get for: 432345564227567616 + № of fac_neutral from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

2) To exclude minor faction armies and unique spawns from the list of possible target parties for the "Track Down Bandits" quest, open scripts.txt, find the script called merchant_road_info_to_s42 and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 9 (212 -> 221). Then find this piece:

1224979098644774928 1224979098644774930 2133 2 1224979098644774929


And replace it with this:

1224979098644774928 1224979098644774930 1609 2 1224979098644774940 1224979098644774927 2147483681 3 1224979098644774940 576460752303423556 576460752303423578 2147483679 2 1224979098644774940 576460752303423502 2147483679 2 1224979098644774940 576460752303423505 2147483679 2 1224979098644774940 576460752303423508 2147483679 2 1224979098644774940 576460752303423511 2147483679 2 1224979098644774940 576460752303423514 2147483679 2 1224979098644774940 576460752303423518 2147483679 2 1224979098644774940 576460752303423521 2133 2 1224979098644774929


Watch for the gaps!

3) To make the target parties of the "Deal with Looters" quest converge to your location to attack you instead of running away, open conversation.txt and find this line:

dlga_merchant_quest_looters_brief:close_window 4095 1450  25 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 0 3 2320 2 5 1585267068834416647 5 0 541 3 144115188075856280 0 4 2320 2 5 1585267068834416646 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 3 7 506 3 504403158265495586 10 1224979098644774912 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774912 2136 3 1224979098644774914 5 14 1103 1 1224979098644774914 1100 2 144115188075856280 576460752303423654 1640 2 72057594037927936 2 1643 2 72057594037927936 2 1625 2 0 72057594037927936 1642 2 72057594037927936 0 3 0 2341 2 9 144115188075855892 2342 2 13 144115188075856280 2330 2 4 144115188075856280 1290 1 504403158265495586 2320 2 2 1585267068834417504 1 3 936748722493063555 504403158265495586 144115188075855892 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 Excellent!_You'll_find_the_looters_roaming_around_the_countryside,_probably_trying_to_rob_more_good_people._Kill_or_capture_the_bastards,_I_don't_care_what_you_do_with_them._I'll_pay_you_a_bounty_of_200_denars_on_every_band_of_looters_you_destroy,_until_all_the_looters_are_dealt_with.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Replace it with this:

dlga_merchant_quest_looters_brief:close_window 4095 1450  26 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 0 3 2320 2 5 1585267068834416647 5 0 541 3 144115188075856280 0 4 2320 2 5 1585267068834416646 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 3 7 506 3 504403158265495586 10 1224979098644774912 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774912 2136 3 1224979098644774914 5 14 1103 1 1224979098644774914 1100 2 144115188075856280 576460752303423654 1640 2 72057594037927936 4 1641 2 72057594037927936 648518346341351424 1639 2 72057594037927936 0 1606 2 72057594037927936 15 1607 2 72057594037927936 15 3 0 2341 2 9 144115188075855892 2342 2 13 144115188075856280 2330 2 4 144115188075856280 1290 1 504403158265495586 2320 2 2 1585267068834417504 1 3 936748722493063555 504403158265495586 144115188075855892 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 Excellent!_You'll_find_the_looters_roaming_around_the_countryside,_probably_trying_to_rob_more_good_people._Kill_or_capture_the_bastards,_I_don't_care_what_you_do_with_them._I'll_pay_you_a_bounty_of_200_denars_on_every_band_of_looters_you_destroy,_until_all_the_looters_are_dealt_with.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


In case of other mods, find the conversation line starting with dlga_merchant_quest_looters_brief:close_window and increase the operation counter 3 numbers after it by 1 (25 -> 26 in case of PoP). Then find this piece in the same line:

2 1643 2 72057594037927936 2 1625 2 0 72057594037927936 1642 2 72057594037927936 0


And replace it with this:

4 1641 2 72057594037927936 648518346341351424 1639 2 72057594037927936 0 1606 2 72057594037927936 15 1607 2 72057594037927936 15


As always, watch for the gaps!

15. Vassals, Lords and Ladies (21)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
15 a) To forbid lords from raiding villages under certain conditions
15 b) To make upstanding and good-natured lords refuse to raid a village when ordered to as a marshall
15 c) To attack any lord
15 d) To change the chance of prisoner lords escaping
15 e) To change the frequency and amount of ransoms offered for captured lords and kings
15 f) To ransom imprisoned lords from other friendly lords
15 g) Undressing captured lords
15 h) To make lords automatically recruit troops from the faction they joined
15 i) To make lords of your own kingdom hire only those rescued troops that correspond to the culture you've chosen
15 j) To revise the household troop allocation and add new ones to lords
15 k) To convert ex-claimants to your kingdom
15 l) To transform most lords' personality to upstanding in every kingdom
15 m) To change the income and starting gold of lords and kings
15 n) To be able to give money to poor friendly lords
15 o) Accessing the equipment of any lord that joined your own faction
15 p) To give sets of civilian clothes to companion-lords, claimant-kings and the player until being inside a castle hall
15 q) To make the troop-giving feature to your vassals as king/queen become mutual
15 r) To add an option to keep your fiefs while telling your king to release you from your oath to him
15 s) To force any married couple to divorce
15 t) To marry any lady, lord, claimant or king
15 u) To access any lady's equipment


Tweak 15 a)

To forbid lords from raiding villages under certain conditions - credits to Dalion and VonDegurechaff

In this tweak there will be 4 ways presented for making lords unable to raid villages under certain conditions. Of which the first 3 are mutually exclusive with each other, while the 4th one works with everything:

alternative way to forbid weak lords from raiding villages
make lords able to raid only the villages of the player's faction
forbid lords from raiding villages completely
upstanding and good-natured lords can never raid villages

By default, lords with less than 900 autocalc party strength can't raid villages.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code under the script called process_hero_ai -1

32 2 1224979098644774922 0 1 3 936748722493063320 1224979098644774913 0 32 2 72057594037927936 900


2) To add an alternative restriction to lords whose total autocalc strength is less than the target village garrison's autocalc strength, find the first number of the script and increase it by 3 (142 -> 145). Then replace the above piece with this:

32 2 1224979098644774922 0 1 3 936748722493063320 1224979098644774922 0 2133 2 1224979098644774930 72057594037927936 1 3 936748722493063320 1224979098644774913 0 2133 2 1224979098644774931 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774931 1224979098644774930


Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap/space at the start and at the end of the inserted code

3) To make lords able to raid only the villages of the player's faction, change the 0 to 432345564227567629, and the 900 to 999999999999 in the piece shown in point 1)

4) To forbid lords from raiding villages completely, change the 900 to 999999999999 in the piece shown in point 1)

5) To make upstanding and good-natured lords never raid villages, find the first number of the script and increase it by 2 (142 -> 144). Then add the following piece after the one shown in point 1) or after the replacement from point 2):

2147484188 3 1224979098644774912 52 6 2147484188 3 1224979098644774912 52 7


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains before and after the added piece!

Tweak 15 b)

To make upstanding and good-natured lords refuse to raid a village when ordered to as a marshall - credits to Dalion

This tweak might be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

After you applied this tweak, lords with upstanding and good-natured personalities will initially refuse to raid villages when you order them to do so as a marshall. The alternative dialogue option for rejection will trigger only if the lord meets all the requirements needed to accept the raiding request (i.e. does not attend to his own matters, such as recruiting). There are 3 options given to the player when the refusal happens:

Intimidate via a renown check: the player needs to have at least a 2 times higher renown rating than the lord. If the check succeeds, the lord will raid the village but relations drop by -15, and your controversy gets raised by 15. If the check fails, the lord won't proceed to raiding, and relations will drop by -3 as a sign of disapproval for using intimidation.
Convince via a persuasion check: each point of this skill gives a 10% chance to suceed. If the check succeeds, the lord will raid the village but relations drop by -5. If the check fails, the lord won't proceed to raiding and no penalties will happen.
Acknowledge the lord's refusal: return to the main dialogue window with no further effect.

Files:

quick_strings.txt
dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) First, open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter at the top of the file by 2 (3139 -> 3141) and add these two lines to the end of the file, as a new line each:

qstr_I_hope_you_understan I_hope_you_understand_I'm_the_marshall_here._Disobeying_my_orders_is_disobeying_the_will_of_our_liege_himself.
qstr_I_d_like_to_remind_y I'd_like_to_remind_you_I'm_still_your_liege,_so_if_you_wish_to_keep_your_privileges_you'll_do_as_I_say.


Make sure there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Next, open dialog_states.txt and add the following 2 entries to the end of the file:

lord_raid_refuse
lord_raid_refuse_response


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Then, open conversation.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 6 (4152 -> 4154) and find the line starting with dlga_lord_give_order_answer:lord_pretalk. Increase the operation counter at the beginning of its code block (the number past the first double space) by 3 (9 -> 12), and after the first instance of 2319 1 12, add this piece of code, separated by 1 gap from each side:

520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 52 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 7 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 6


4) Right after the previous line, add the following 6 as a new line each:

dlga_lord_give_order_answer:lord_raid_refuse 4095 598  7 1 2 936748722493063711 144115188075855892 31 2 72057594037927936 144115188075855914 31 2 72057594037927937 144115188075856010 31 2 144115188075855914 5 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 52 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 7 31 2 1224979098644774912 6 Sorry_my_lord,_my_principles_prevent_me_from_acting_as_such._I'd_rather_not_harm_innocents,_even_in_times_of_war._I_hope_you_understand.  1874  1 2133 2 72057594037927961 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_raid_refuse:lord_raid_refuse_response 69631 1874  5 2320 2 1 1585267068834417731 4 0 542 3 144115188075856294 11 360287970189639680 2320 2 1 1585267068834417732 3 0 {s1}  1875  9 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 7 520 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 7 2123 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774914 2 2133 2 72057594037927961 2 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927961 -2 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_raid_refuse:lord_raid_refuse_response.1 69631 1874  0 I_get_it,_but_it's_an_important_step_in_our_military_campaign._Is_there_no_way_I_can_convince_you?  1875  9 2170 2 1224979098644774912 7 2122 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 10 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2133 2 72057594037927961 1 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927961 -1 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_raid_refuse:lord_pretalk 69631 1874  0 Fine,_it's_your_right._I'll_ask_someone_else.  227  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_raid_refuse_response:lord_pretalk 4095 1875  1 2147483678 2 72057594037927961 0 I_don't_care,_sorry._In_matters_of_conscience_it's_only_the_gods_I_am_accountable_to.  227  4 4 0 31 2 72057594037927961 -2 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 -3 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_raid_refuse_response:lord_pretalk.1 4095 1875  1 32 2 72057594037927961 0 I_see_your_point_there,_and_will_obey_this_time._But_still_it_saddens_me_that_you_are_not_even_trying_to_find_another_way.  227  11 2133 2 1224979098644774912 -5 4 0 31 2 72057594037927961 2 520 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 150 2105 2 1224979098644774913 15 2133 2 1224979098644774912 -15 500 3 360287970189639680 150 1224979098644774913 3 0 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 1224979098644774912 1 4 936748722493063430 144115188075855898 144115188075855914 144115188075856010 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 NO_VOICEOVER 


5) Lastly, here are the highlighted numbers from above to be adjusted - according to the following formulas -, in case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in the given file:

1874 (point 4), line 1, 2, 3 & 4) with the number you got for lord_raid_refuse from point 2) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1875 (point 4), line 2, 3, 5 & 6) with the number you got for lord_raid_refuse_response from point 2) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 (point 4), line 2) with the number you got for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_I_hope_you_understan from point 1) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417732 (point 4), line 2) with the number you got for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_I_d_like_to_remind_y from point 1) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the below numbers as follows, in order to have a correct replacement. So, replace:

144115188075855892 (point 3); point 4), line 1 (2 instances), 2, 5 & 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855914 (point 4), line 1 (2 instances) & 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of temp in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856010 (point 4), line 1 & 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of temp_2 in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856294 (point 4), line 2) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of players_kingdom in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855898 (point 4), line 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop_party in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855935 (point 4), line 6) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_leave_encounter in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
598 (point 4), line 1) with the number you got for lord_give_order_answer in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
227 (point 4), line 4, 5 & 6) with the number you got for lord_pretalk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
936748722493063711 (point 4), line 1) with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of npc_decision_checklist_party_ai script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063695 (point 4), line 5 & 6) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of troop_change_relation_with_troop script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063430 (point 4), line 6) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of party_set_ai_state script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 c)

To attack any lord - credits to BananaFruit

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) Find the line that starts with dlga_lord_talk:party_encounter_lord_hostile_ultimatum_surrender, decrease the counter at the beginning of its body by 1 (3 -> 2), and delete this piece from its code block:

2147483678 2 144115188075856958 0


Make sure that only 1 space remains at the place of the removed part.

2) If you want to prevent becoming hostile to your own kingdom, find the line that starts with dlga_party_encounter_lord_hostile_ultimatum_surrender:close_window right below, increase the counter at the beginning of its code block by 3 (8 -> 11), and find this piece in there:

1 3 936748722493063449 144115188075856957 -3


Replace it with this:

4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856957 144115188075856294 1 3 936748722493063449 144115188075856957 -3 4 0


In case of other mods, first check if the above piece (as a whole) is already present in the code block of dlga_party_encounter_lord_hostile_ultimatum_surrender:close_window, and proceed to its addition only in case it's missing. Otherwise skip this step!

3) Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

144115188075856958 (point 1) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party_relation variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856957 (point 2), 3 instances) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party_faction variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856294 (point 2) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of players_kingdom variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063449 (point 2), 2 instances) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of make_kingdom_hostile_to_player script in scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 d)

To change the chance of prisoner lords escaping - credits to BananaFruit and VonDegurechaff

Point 4) of this tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

Every 48 hours, prisoner lords will try to escape from your party or garrison. For escaping from your party, the chance is 40% for each lord with 0 Prisoner Management, and 20% with 10 Prisoner Management. For escaping from one of your garrisons, the chance is 20% for each lord if your steward's Prisoner Management skill is at 0, and 10% once your steward's Prisoner Management skill gets trained to 10. Having a Prison Tower built in the given fief halves the overall escape chances (so the chances will become 10% and 5% respectively). The scale is linear between these limits.

Files:

simple_triggers.txt
scripts.txt

1) For the escape chance from the player's party, open simple_triggers.txt and search for this piece:

20 2121 3 1224979098644774913 400


The chance of a prisoner lord escaping from your party (in %) is (400 - 20*yourPrisonerManagementSkill)/10. Change both 20 and 400 to 0 to disable lords from escaping from your party. Or just reduce these values to your liking.

2) For the escape chance from the player's fiefs, search for this piece:

10 2121 3 1224979098644774913 200


The chance of a prisoner lord escaping from prison (in %, without a prison tower) is (200 - 10*Steward'sPrisonerManagementSkill)/10. Change both 10 and 200 to 0 to disable lords from escaping from prison. Or just reduce these values to your liking.

In case you didn't eliminate the escape chance of lords, you may also change the frequency (expressed in hours) when they try to escape. This trigger can be found at the beginning of the line. Change that "48" (within 48.000000) to something else.

3) Alternatively, you can make lords' escape chances be independent from your or your steward's Prisoner Management skill, thus becoming constant values. The advantage of this is that you can set the different chances independently from each other, at the cost of making Prisoner Management skill less important in general. To do so, find the same trigger but as a whole this time:

48.000000  25 2170 3 1224979098644774912 2 360287970189639680 2107 2 1224979098644774912 20 2121 3 1224979098644774913 400 1224979098644774912 1 3 936748722493063646 648518346341351424 1224979098644774913 6 3 1224979098644774914 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 2204 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075856294 521 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 293 2170 3 1224979098644774912 2 1224979098644774916 2107 2 1224979098644774912 10 2121 3 1224979098644774913 200 1224979098644774912 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774914 275 1 2108 2 1224979098644774913 2 3 0 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 30 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774914 275 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 5 3 0 3 0 1 3 936748722493063646 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 3 0


And replace it with this:

48.000000  9 1 3 936748722493063646 648518346341351424 50 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 2133 2 1224979098644774913 30 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774912 275 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 5 3 0 1 3 936748722493063646 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 3 0


The highlighted constant numbers above indicate the following (in the same order):

48 - time (expressed in hours) between escape attempts
50 - chance of prisoner lords escaping from the player's party
30 - chance of prisoner lords escaping from the player's fiefs without Prison Tower
5 - chance of prisoner lords escaping from the player's fiefs with Prison Tower built

Change these values to your liking.

4) You can also forbid lords to escape from captivity if their health is below a given percentage. To do so, open scripts.txt, find the script called randomly_make_prisoner_heroes_escape_from_party and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 2 (46 -> 48). Then find this piece:

2147483679 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774915


And replace it with this:

2147483679 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774915 2175 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918 30 2 1224979098644774921 90


Watch for the gaps, so that exactly 1 remains before and after the replacement! That 90 is the set percentage threshold of lords' health, below which escaping gets forbidden. If you set it to 101, then in theory the escape attempts can be disabled completely, but it could lead to errors so watch out.

Tweak 15 e)

To change the frequency and amount of ransoms offered for captured lords and kings - credits to TheMageLord and Hardrada

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

The chance for a ransom being offered remains editable with TweakMB, so it won't be shown here.

Files:

simple_triggers.txt
scripts.txt

1) To change the frequency of ransoms offered, open simple_triggers.txt and find the trigger that starts with this piece:

24.000000  10 2147483679 2


The 24 is the frequency of the trigger (the offer of ransoms) expressed in hours. Change it to your liking. In case of other mods, the operation counter (10) might be different.

2) To change the amount of ransoms offered, open scripts.txt and locate these 4 pieces of code under the script called calculate_ransom_amount_for_troop:

400 2133 2 1224979098644774915 -9 4 0 542 3 1224979098644774913 11 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774914 4000
6 5 0 541 3 1224979098644774917 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774916 2 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774916 1 3 0 3 0 2107 2 1224979098644774916 1300
5 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774918 2122 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774914 3 2108 2 1224979098644774919 2
100 2107 2 1224979098644774920 100


The calculated ransom starts with a base number of 400, to which 4000 gets added for faction leaders. There is also a modifier for the number and kind of fiefs that lords own: 6 for a town, 2 for a castle, and 1 for a village, which all get multiplied by 1300 and in the end gets added to the previous base amount. Next, the lord's renown gets multiplied by 5 and the result also gets added on top of the base amount, becoming the minimum value for the ransom offered. The maximum value will be this minimum multiplied by 3 and divided by 2 (x1.5). The actual ransom will be a randomly picked value between the 'minimum' and the 'maximum'. Lastly, the game divides the chosen amount by 100 and then immediately multiplies it back by 100, in order to round it down to the nearest hundred.

So as an example, let's say that we have captured a faction leader (King Ulric), who has a town, a village and 1000 renown. His minimum ransom value is 400 + 4000 + ((6 + 1) x 1300) + (5 x 1000) = 18500. The maximum ransom value is 18500 x 3 / 2 = 27750. The game randomly selects 25713 as his ransom and then divides and multiplies it by 100 to round it to 25700, which will then be the actual ransom offered.

Change the above values to your liking. If you just want to double the ransom offers, then the best way to do this would be to either change the first 100 to 50, or the second 100 to 200. You may also want to boost the ransom offers for landless lords as they become increasingly common later in the game: changing the base 400 to 1000 and reducing the fief multiplier from 1300 to 800 will boost the ransom of landless lords significantly, while not having a too big impact on other lords. In case of other mods, the highlighted values might be different (e.g. in Native, 6, 1300 and 5 are 4, 500 and 2 respectively).

Tweak 15 f)

To ransom imprisoned lords from other friendly lords - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Using this tweak will let you talk to a lord sitting in a dungeon of another lord, and if your relation with the fief's owner is above 35 and you have enough money (4000 denars to buy a lord and 8000 to buy a king), then you will be able to buy this lord/king. He will be added to your party as a prisoner and your money will be transferred to the fief's owner.

File: conversation.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153)

2) Then find the line that starts with "dlga_lord_talk:lord_leave_prison" and insert the following after it, as a new line:

dlga_lord_talk:fighter_talk_leave_parry 69631 475  13 560 3 144115188075855892 8 0 561 3 144115188075856143 7 360287970189639681 521 3 1224979098644774924 144115188075856143 7 1 2 936748722493063441 1224979098644774924 30 2 72057594037927936 35 2133 2 1224979098644774925 4000 4 0 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640205 360287970189640210 2133 2 1224979098644774925 8000 3 0 2149 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774925 2133 2 72057594037927941 1224979098644774925 I_am_taking_you_from_here_(pay_{reg5}_denars_to_fief_owner).  52  7 1614 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1616 3 144115188075856143 144115188075855892 1 521 3 1224979098644774924 144115188075856143 7 520 3 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774924 11 2105 2 1224979098644774927 72057594037927941 500 3 1224979098644774924 11 1224979098644774927 1529 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927941 NO_VOICEOVER 


Change the above values to your liking. Also, in case of other mods, you'll need to replace:

475 with the number you got for lord_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 (4 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856143 (4 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063441 with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of troop_get_player_relation script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
360287970189640205 with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the first king (trp_kingdom_1_lord) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640210 with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the troop after the last king in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
52 with the number you got for fighter_talk_leave_parry in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 g)

Undressing captured lords - credits to Leonion

This tweak will allow you to take the equipment of lords you captured at the cost of -25 relation and -1 honor. They will also be automatically released right after you undress them. The next time you see them, they will have their equipment. This cannot be done to kings, as you have another option to get their legendary weapons.

File: conversation.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153)

2) Then find this line:

dlga_prisoner_chat_noble2:close_window.3 69631 1665  0 I_will_think_upon_your_offer.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


3) And add the following after it as a new line:

dlga_prisoner_chat_noble2:close_window.4 69631 1665  3 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640210 360287970189640310 2167 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774926 9 I'm_taking_your_equipment._Run_home,_you_bastard!  6  9 1 2 936748722493063450 -1 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 -25 1533 1 144115188075855892 6 3 1224979098644774927 0 9 1541 3 1224979098644774928 144115188075855892 1224979098644774927 32 2 1224979098644774928 0 1535 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774928 1 3 0 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 NO_VOICEOVER


Change the above values if you wish.

Tweak 15 h)

To make lords automatically recruit troops from the faction they joined - credits to Timon and Dalion

Files:

scripts.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open scripts.txt and find this piece of code under the script called cf_reinforce_party:

4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 13 1652 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 14 3 0


Delete it, then decrease the operation counter at the beginning of the script by 5 (620 -> 615).

2) Alternatively, you can exclude companion-lords from this tweak if you increase the mentioned operation counter by 1 (620 -> 621) and instead of deleting the piece from the previous point, you replace it with this:

4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 13 1652 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 33 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 14 3 0


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains at the place of the removed/replaced content.

3) Lastly, open conversation.txt, find the line that starts with dlga_declaration_of_indep3:declaration_of_indep3 and replace it with this:

dlga_declaration_of_indep3:declaration_of_indep3 4095 269  0 All_Hail_{reg63?King:Queen}_{playername}!_^^_Long_live_the_{reg63?King:Queen}!!!  269  10 2114 2 144115188075856171 65536 603 1 0 1506 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 600 1 1152921504606847611 5 0 600 1 1152921504606847610 3 0 1 1 936748722493063217 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 15 i)

To make lords of your own kingdom hire only those rescued troops that correspond to the culture you've chosen - credits to Dalion

This tweak is mutually exclusive with the ones touching the party_add_party_prisoners script!

Be careful if you choose Pendor culture for your kingdom, as the units of the Pendor troop tree are rare to come by in form of prisoners!

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the script called game_event_simulate_battle, increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 1 (576 -> 577), and then locate this piece:

2133 2 144115188075855940 0 1 4 936748722493063332 648518346341351429


2) Replace it with this:

2133 2 144115188075855940 0 2133 2 72057594037927985 1224979098644774933 1 4 936748722493063332 648518346341351429


Watch for the gaps, so that 1 remains before and after the replacement

3) Then, find the script called party_add_party_prisoners and replace everything in its body with this:

55 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 23 2 1224979098644774913 2 23 2 1224979098644774914 3 1651 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774915 1656 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 3221226979 1 1224979098644774917 31 2 144115188075855940 1 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 1073743331 1 1224979098644774917 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 40 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 3221225505 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640046 360287970189640051 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 2147483681 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640106 360287970189640184 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 4 0 2147483679 2 72057594037927985 648518346341351424 541 3 72057594037927985 0 13 2204 2 1224979098644774920 72057594037927985 31 2 1224979098644774920 432345564227567630 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 522 3 1224979098644774921 432345564227567630 10 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567623 33 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639765 360287970189639783 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567624 33 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639783 360287970189639802 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567625 33 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639802 360287970189639823 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567626 33 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639823 360287970189639843 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567627 33 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639843 360287970189639865 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567628 33 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639865 360287970189639884 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774919 1 1657 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 1610 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774922 3 0 3 0 


Watch for the gap at the start!

4) The highlighted 40 is the level restriction, so you and your lords will only be able to recruit troops below that level (the default setting). Change it to something else if you'd like. A value of 61 will allow the hiring of all rescued troops that meet the criteria, regardless of their level: any troop for the player, and troops from the culture you've set for your lords.

Tweak 15 j)

To revise the household troop allocation and add new ones to lords

This tweak requires a new game to take effect!

The idea of the revision is that all 5 kingdoms should have one lord designated to host the knights and sergeants of their 2 main (most iconic) KOs, plus the respective rogue knights each. Two lords are not allowed to have the same household troops, as it lessens the uniqueness. The household troops of kings and claimants are not taken into account because they are their own kind. In practice, this means the following:

Sarleon: knights and sergeants of the Lion and Clarion Call, plus Sarleon Rogue Knight
Ravenstern: knights and sergeants of the Dragon and Raven Spear, plus Ravenstern Rogue Knight
D'Shar: knights and sergeants of the D'Shar Windriders and Scorpion Assassins, plus D'Shar Rogue Knight
Fierdsvain: knights and sergeants of the Valkyrie Sisterhood and Kraken Cultists, plus Fierdsvain Rogue Knight
Empire: knights and sergeants of the Empire Immortals and Shadow Legion, plus Baccus Rogue Knight

To achieve this, the following adjustments are needed. The lords chosen are the best candidates I've found regarding their background (exceptional renown rating and/or personality), banner, armor setup, walled fief held (if any) and standing in the kingdom (rank of vassalage):

Sarleon:
Baron Aeldfried: Squires of the Lion (instead of Knights of the Lion) [5-8]
Ravenstern:
Count Carolus: Knights of the Raven Spear [4-7]
Count Ivanus: Raven Spear Mercenary [4-7]
D'Shar:
Caliph Hamid: D'Shar Windriders (instead of D'Shar Ghazi Dervishes) [4-7]
Caliph Bahmman: Scorpion Assassins (instead of D'Shar Ghazi Reavers) [4-7]
Haji Nabi Bey: D'Shar Ghazi Reavers [4-7]
Ardeshir Khan: Scorpion Scions [2-4]
Fierdsvain:
Earl Sigimund Stonehand: Kraken Riddari (instead of Vanskerry Jarls) [4-7]
Jarl Eydis Fairhair: Storm Sisters [4-7]
Empire:
Justus Dux: Empire Immortals (instead of Empire Mortals) [5-7]
Varius Legatus: Baccus Rogue Knights [4-7]
Lord Brutus: Empire Mortals [3-6]

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

500 3 360287970189640213 158 360287970189640009 500 3 360287970189640213 159 2 500 3 360287970189640213 160 4 500 3 360287970189640214 158 360287970189639937 500 3 360287970189640214 159 3 500 3 360287970189640214 160 5 500 3 360287970189640215 158 360287970189639883 500 3 360287970189640215 159 4 500 3 360287970189640215 160 7 500 3 360287970189640216 158 360287970189639970 500 3 360287970189640216 159 2 500 3 360287970189640216 160 4 500 3 360287970189640217 158 360287970189640074 500 3 360287970189640217 159 2 500 3 360287970189640217 160 4 500 3 360287970189640230 158 360287970189639886 500 3 360287970189640230 159 4 500 3 360287970189640230 160 7 500 3 360287970189640231 158 360287970189640021 500 3 360287970189640231 159 4 500 3 360287970189640231 160 7 500 3 360287970189640232 158 360287970189640008 500 3 360287970189640232 159 4 500 3 360287970189640232 160 7 500 3 360287970189640235 158 360287970189639936 500 3 360287970189640235 159 4 500 3 360287970189640235 160 7 500 3 360287970189640236 158 360287970189639794 500 3 360287970189640236 159 4 500 3 360287970189640236 160 7 500 3 360287970189640238 158 360287970189640065 500 3 360287970189640238 159 4 500 3 360287970189640238 160 7 500 3 360287970189640250 158 360287970189639807 500 3 360287970189640250 159 4 500 3 360287970189640250 160 7 500 3 360287970189640251 158 360287970189639979 500 3 360287970189640251 159 4 500 3 360287970189640251 160 7 500 3 360287970189640252 158 360287970189639815 500 3 360287970189640252 159 4 500 3 360287970189640252 160 7 500 3 360287970189640253 158 360287970189640079 500 3 360287970189640253 159 4 500 3 360287970189640253 160 7 500 3 360287970189640254 158 360287970189639934 500 3 360287970189640254 159 4 500 3 360287970189640254 160 7 500 3 360287970189640257 158 360287970189639822 500 3 360287970189640257 159 4 500 3 360287970189640257 160 7 500 3 360287970189640258 158 360287970189639807 500 3 360287970189640258 159 4 500 3 360287970189640258 160 7 500 3 360287970189640259 158 360287970189640068 500 3 360287970189640259 159 4 500 3 360287970189640259 160 7 500 3 360287970189640270 158 360287970189639917 500 3 360287970189640270 159 4 500 3 360287970189640270 160 7 500 3 360287970189640271 158 360287970189639905 500 3 360287970189640271 159 4 500 3 360287970189640271 160 7 500 3 360287970189640272 158 360287970189639833 500 3 360287970189640272 159 5 500 3 360287970189640272 160 9 500 3 360287970189640273 158 360287970189639935 500 3 360287970189640273 159 4 500 3 360287970189640273 160 7 500 3 360287970189640279 158 360287970189640012 500 3 360287970189640279 159 4 500 3 360287970189640279 160 7 500 3 360287970189640287 158 360287970189639905 500 3 360287970189640287 159 4 500 3 360287970189640287 160 7 500 3 360287970189640289 158 360287970189640069 500 3 360287970189640289 159 6 500 3 360287970189640289 160 9 500 3 360287970189640290 158 360287970189640067 500 3 360287970189640290 159 5 500 3 360287970189640290 160 7 500 3 360287970189640291 158 360287970189640020 500 3 360287970189640291 159 3 500 3 360287970189640291 160 6 500 3 360287970189640292 158 360287970189640077 500 3 360287970189640292 159 5 500 3 360287970189640292 160 9 500 3 360287970189640293 158 360287970189639864 500 3 360287970189640293 159 4 500 3 360287970189640293 160 7 500 3 360287970189640294 158 360287970189640073 500 3 360287970189640294 159 5 500 3 360287970189640294 160 7 500 3 360287970189640295 158 360287970189640023 500 3 360287970189640295 159 3 500 3 360287970189640295 160 6 500 3 360287970189640297 158 360287970189640000 500 3 360287970189640297 159 5 500 3 360287970189640297 160 8


2) And replace it with this:

500 3 360287970189640213 158 360287970189640066 500 3 360287970189640213 159 5 500 3 360287970189640213 160 8 500 3 360287970189640214 158 360287970189639937 500 3 360287970189640214 159 3 500 3 360287970189640214 160 5 500 3 360287970189640215 158 360287970189639882 500 3 360287970189640215 159 4 500 3 360287970189640215 160 7 500 3 360287970189640216 158 360287970189639970 500 3 360287970189640216 159 2 500 3 360287970189640216 160 4 500 3 360287970189640217 158 360287970189640074 500 3 360287970189640217 159 2 500 3 360287970189640217 160 4 500 3 360287970189640230 158 360287970189639886 500 3 360287970189640230 159 4 500 3 360287970189640230 160 7 500 3 360287970189640231 158 360287970189640021 500 3 360287970189640231 159 4 500 3 360287970189640231 160 7 500 3 360287970189640232 158 360287970189640008 500 3 360287970189640232 159 4 500 3 360287970189640232 160 7 500 3 360287970189640233 158 360287970189640015 500 3 360287970189640233 159 4 500 3 360287970189640233 160 7 500 3 360287970189640235 158 360287970189639936 500 3 360287970189640235 159 4 500 3 360287970189640235 160 7 500 3 360287970189640236 158 360287970189639794 500 3 360287970189640236 159 4 500 3 360287970189640236 160 7 500 3 360287970189640237 158 360287970189640072 500 3 360287970189640237 159 4 500 3 360287970189640237 160 7 500 3 360287970189640238 158 360287970189640065 500 3 360287970189640238 159 4 500 3 360287970189640238 160 7 500 3 360287970189640250 158 360287970189640011 500 3 360287970189640250 159 4 500 3 360287970189640250 160 7 500 3 360287970189640251 158 360287970189639979 500 3 360287970189640251 159 4 500 3 360287970189640251 160 7 500 3 360287970189640252 158 360287970189640025 500 3 360287970189640252 159 4 500 3 360287970189640252 160 7 500 3 360287970189640253 158 360287970189640079 500 3 360287970189640253 159 4 500 3 360287970189640253 160 7 500 3 360287970189640254 158 360287970189639934 500 3 360287970189640254 159 4 500 3 360287970189640254 160 7 500 3 360287970189640255 158 360287970189639815 500 3 360287970189640255 159 4 500 3 360287970189640255 160 7 500 3 360287970189640257 158 360287970189639822 500 3 360287970189640257 159 4 500 3 360287970189640257 160 7 500 3 360287970189640258 158 360287970189639807 500 3 360287970189640258 159 4 500 3 360287970189640258 160 7 500 3 360287970189640259 158 360287970189640068 500 3 360287970189640259 159 4 500 3 360287970189640259 160 7 500 3 360287970189640268 158 360287970189640082 500 3 360287970189640268 159 2 500 3 360287970189640268 160 4 500 3 360287970189640270 158 360287970189639917 500 3 360287970189640270 159 4 500 3 360287970189640270 160 7 500 3 360287970189640271 158 360287970189640026 500 3 360287970189640271 159 4 500 3 360287970189640271 160 7 500 3 360287970189640272 158 360287970189639833 500 3 360287970189640272 159 5 500 3 360287970189640272 160 9 500 3 360287970189640273 158 360287970189639935 500 3 360287970189640273 159 4 500 3 360287970189640273 160 7 500 3 360287970189640276 158 360287970189640083 500 3 360287970189640276 159 4 500 3 360287970189640276 160 7 500 3 360287970189640279 158 360287970189640012 500 3 360287970189640279 159 4 500 3 360287970189640279 160 7 500 3 360287970189640287 158 360287970189639905 500 3 360287970189640287 159 4 500 3 360287970189640287 160 7 500 3 360287970189640289 158 360287970189640069 500 3 360287970189640289 159 6 500 3 360287970189640289 160 9 500 3 360287970189640290 158 360287970189640010 500 3 360287970189640290 159 5 500 3 360287970189640290 160 7 500 3 360287970189640291 158 360287970189640020 500 3 360287970189640291 159 3 500 3 360287970189640291 160 6 500 3 360287970189640292 158 360287970189640077 500 3 360287970189640292 159 5 500 3 360287970189640292 160 9 500 3 360287970189640293 158 360287970189639864 500 3 360287970189640293 159 4 500 3 360287970189640293 160 7 500 3 360287970189640294 158 360287970189640073 500 3 360287970189640294 159 5 500 3 360287970189640294 160 7 500 3 360287970189640295 158 360287970189640023 500 3 360287970189640295 159 3 500 3 360287970189640295 160 6 500 3 360287970189640296 158 360287970189639938 500 3 360287970189640296 159 4 500 3 360287970189640296 160 7 500 3 360287970189640297 158 360287970189640000 500 3 360287970189640297 159 5 500 3 360287970189640297 160 8 500 3 360287970189640300 158 360287970189640067 500 3 360287970189640300 159 3 500 3 360287970189640300 160 6


3) Lastly, increase the counter at the beginning of the script called game_start by 21 (1324 -> 1345)

4) As for how to add household troops to a lord in general, let's take the below example which is for Agathon Legatus and his Iron Circle Centurions:

500 3 360287970189640297 158 360287970189640000 500 3 360287970189640297 159 5 500 3 360287970189640297 160 8


The black numbers (3 instances) are the troop ID of the given lord (Agathon Legatus in this case) and the blue number (1 instance) is the troop ID of the desired household troop (Iron Circle Centurion in this case). These numbers should be set to the following formula: 360287970189639680 + sequence number of the troop seen in Morgh's Editor. For instance, 360287970189640000 is the result of 360287970189639680 + 320, the latter being the sequence number of Iron Circle Centurion. Then, there are the 5 and 8 after a "159" and "160" respectively. Those are the minimum and maximum amount of household troops to be added to the given lord's party when he is recruiting from the kingdom reinforcement templates. Therefore, these numbers behave the same way as those, and as such, it is worth to mention that giving too many high-tier troops to a lord's party will decrease his party size due to running his purse dry. Now that you've adjusted the above piece, it's the time to put it in the script, right after a similarly looking piece, that being "500 3 X 158 Y 500 3 X 159 Z 500 3 X 160 Z". Rinse and repeat for multiple household troops. Lastly, increase the counter at the beginning of the script (1324) by 3 for each of the above kind of pieces added (i.e per the amount of different household troops). Also, note that the lords in the above script are in numerical order, so for the sake of an easier trackability, you should follow the same pattern.

Tweak 15 k)

To convert ex-claimants to your kingdom - credits to Leonion

This tweak will allow you to convert ex-claimants that became lords to your own kingdom the same way you can convert any other lord by talking to him when he is your prisoner. For this to happen, you first have to put a claimant to the throne, and then leave from his service and/or let his kingdom get defeated. Then the claimant will switch to another faction (unlike the original kings, who will go into exile when that happens).

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

1073741857 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640210 360287970189640310 33 3


2) Increase the number in bold by 5 (360287970189640310 -> 360287970189640315)

Warning: conversion may become available even when claimants are still kings/queens. Don't use this option at this point. Wait till they become vassals of other kingdoms.

Tweak 15 l)

To transform most lords' personality to upstanding in every kingdom - credits to SirArtyr

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too
This tweak requires a new game to take effect!

With this tweak, 15 out of 20 lords from each faction will have an upstanding personality. The tweak does not work on companions.

File: scripts.txt

1) Under the initialize_aristocracy script, find these two pieces:

2136 3 1224979098644774918 0 8

2136 3 1224979098644774918 0 16


2) And replace both with this:

2136 3 1224979098644774918 7 8


3) Watch for the gaps (so that only 1 remains between each number)

Tweak 15 m)

To change the income and starting gold of lords and kings - credits to Dalion and Vetrogor

Point 1) of this tweak requires a new game to take effect!
This tweak can likely be made compatible with other mods too!

File: scripts.txt

1) To change the stating gold, find this piece of code under the script called game_start:

12000 4 0 2173 2 1224979098644774971 1224979098644774968 542 3 1224979098644774971 11 1224979098644774968 2133 2 1224979098644774970 50000


Lords start with 12000 gold, while kings start with 50000. Change these values to your liking! In case of other mods, only the highlighted values can be identified most likely. For example, in Native, the values to be found under game_start script are 6000 and 20000 respectively.

2) To change the income, find these 3 pieces of code under the scripts called calculate_hero_weekly_net_income_and_add_to_wealth and calculate_hero_weekly_income_and_party_wage:

520 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 11 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1000
542 3 1224979098644774918 11 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1000
542 3 1224979098644774918 8 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1000


As well as this piece under the calculate_hero_weekly_net_income_and_add_to_wealth script:

31 2 1224979098644774914 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 600


The default weekly income of a lord is 1000 denars, while kings get a bonus of 1000 and marshalls get a bonus of 1000 on top. If you change these numbers, do so in both scripts! If there is not enough money to pay for all soldiers' wage upon the given week, then defections will happen. Last but not least, if a lord/king/marshall became indebted previously (wealth being negative), then the income is set to only 600 denars to all of them for that week. In case of other mods, the calculate_hero_weekly_income_and_party_wage script does not exist and likely there isn't a separate condition for indebted lords either, so 600 is not a concern either. What is left is the default income, as well as the king and marshall bonuses, which you can likely find in a similar format in the calculate_hero_weekly_net_income_and_add_to_wealth script, but with different well-rounded values.

Tweak 15 n)

To be able to give money to poor friendly lords - credits to Leonion and VonDegurechaff

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak adds a new dialogue option that will allow you to give money (10000 denars at once) to poor (current wealth <=2000) friendly (relation with player character >=30) lords in exchange for a small relation boost (+8). The money will be added to lords' budgets and they will (most likely) spend them on buying troops.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following entry to the end of the file:

lord_sponsor


2) Look at the serial number of the line you added and subtract 1 from it. Keep that number in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 2 (4152 -> 4154)

4) Find the line that starts with dlga_lord_talk:lord_predemand and add these two lines after it as a new line each:

dlga_lord_talk:lord_sponsor 69631 475  8 2147484208 3 144115188075855892 8 0 30 2 144115188075856958 0 1 2 936748722493063441 144115188075855892 30 2 72057594037927936 30 520 3 1224979098644774925 144115188075855892 11 2147483680 2 1224979098644774925 2000 2149 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774926 10000 Dear_friend,_I_can_see_that_you_are_running_short_of_money._Please_let_me_help_you_in_this_time_of_need_(give_10000_denars)  1874  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 10000 520 3 1224979098644774925 144115188075855892 11 2105 2 1224979098644774925 10000 500 3 144115188075855892 11 1224979098644774925 1 4 936748722493063695 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 8 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_sponsor:lord_talk 4095 1874  0 This_is_most_noble_of_you,_{playername}.  475  0 NO_VOICEOVER


5) If you wish, you may change the above values:

0: Minimum relation required for the option to appear. To make it available for hostile lords as well, replace it with -100 together with the relation threshold below
10000: Money given (4 instances, change them all!)
2000: Wealth threshold
30: Relation threshold
8 : Relation boost

6) Lastly, make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line (1-1) match the value calculated in point 2). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt. Otherwise the above will work as is. Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

475 (1 instance in both lines) with the number you got for lord_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 (6 instances in line 1) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856958 (1 instance in line 1) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party_relation variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063441 (1 instance in line 1) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of troop_get_player_relation script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063695 (1 instance in line 1) with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of troop_change_relation_with_troop script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 o)

Accessing the equipment of any lord that joined your own faction - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

You will find this new dialogue option in the "I wish to ask you something" conversation submenu.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following entry to the end of the file:

lord_change_equipment


2) Look at the serial number of the line you added and subtract 1 from it. Keep that number in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 2 (4152 -> 4154). Then find the line that starts with dlga_lord_talk_ask_something_2:lord_talk_ask_about_war

4) Add the following 2 lines right after it, as a new line each:

dlga_lord_talk_ask_something_2:lord_change_equipment 69631 610  2 2173 2 1224979098644774922 144115188075855892 31 2 1224979098644774922 432345564227567630 I_would_like_to_see_your_equipment.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_change_equipment:lord_pretalk 4095 1874  0 Well,_if_you_wish_so,_my_liege.  227  1 2051  0 NO_VOICEOVER


5) Make sure that the highlighted number in each line match the value calculated in point 2). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt. Otherwise the above will work as is. Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

610 with the number you got for lord_talk_ask_something_2 in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
432345564227567630 with the number you get for: 432345564227567616 + № of fac_player_supporters_faction from factions.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
227 with the number you got for lord_pretalk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 p)

To give sets of civilian clothes to companion-lords, claimant-kings and the player until being inside a castle hall - credits to Dalion

This tweak allows the player, companions (after becoming lords) and claimants (after becoming kings) to wear civilian clothes in castle hall scenes. The outfit of NPCs are determined in the code below, and the player's outfit can be customized dynamically under the 'Camp' -> 'Take an action' -> 'Set civilian outfit' option. If the player takes back all items from the civilian dummy, the PC will appear in the usual equipment.

Companions' outfit: https://imgur.com/Kdkl66z

Files:

menus.txt
scripts.txt
mission_templates.txt
conversation.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) First, open menus.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (319 -> 320).

2) Then find the following line and increase the counter at the end by 1 as well (10 -> 11)

menu_camp_action 4096 Choose_an_action: none 1 2031 1 1441151880758558777 10


3) Then find this piece:

 mno_camp_recruit_prisoners  11 105 1 1


4) And replace it with this:

 mno_camp_civilian_outfit  0  Set_civilian_outfit.  35 2167 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 9 1106 2 1585267068834417731 14574654 5 0 2322 2 3 360287970189639680 1501 2 360287970189640711 3 1506 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1505 2 360287970189640711 1224979098644774913 2750 3 4 360287970189639680 0 2751 3 360287970189640711 4 0 2751 3 360287970189640711 4 1 2172 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 0 2172 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640711 0 2121 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 1520 3 360287970189640711 0 1224979098644774916 2170 3 1224979098644774917 24 360287970189639680 2170 3 1224979098644774918 24 360287970189640711 2121 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774918 1521 3 360287970189640711 24 1224979098644774919 2170 3 1224979098644774920 26 360287970189639680 2170 3 1224979098644774921 26 360287970189640711 2121 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774921 1521 3 360287970189640711 26 1224979098644774922 2170 3 1224979098644774923 33 360287970189639680 2170 3 1224979098644774924 33 360287970189640711 2121 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774924 1521 3 360287970189640711 33 1224979098644774925 2170 3 1224979098644774926 34 360287970189639680 2170 3 1224979098644774927 34 360287970189640711 2121 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774927 1521 3 360287970189640711 34 1224979098644774928 2060 1 864691128455135551 2051 1 360287970189640711 3 0  .  mno_camp_recruit_prisoners  11 105 1 1


Watch for the gap at the start!

5) Also, add the following menu to the end of the file, in form of 2 new lines:

menu_civilian_info 0 The_items_chosen_will_be_equipped_on_you_during_your_castle_hall_visits.^^NOTE:_This_script_supports_only_items_with_the_'civilian'_flag,_so_all_the_rest_will_be_returned_back_to_your_inventory_as_you_proceed.^^If_you_want_to_disable_this_feature_for_your_character,_then_just_take_back_all_the_items_and_you_will_appear_in_your_battle_armor. none 0 1
 mno_info_continue  0  Continue...  25 1540 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640711 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774912 1541 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640711 1224979098644774913 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 4 0 1570 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 12 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 13 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 14 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 3 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 1 2147486371 2 1224979098644774914 536870912 1542 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640711 1224979098644774913 2325 2 5 1224979098644774914 1107 1 1 1105 2 1585267068834417732 14574654 1107 1 0 1530 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774917 1531 2 360287970189640711 1224979098644774914 3 0 1107 1 1 2060 1 864691128455135293  . 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

6) Next, open scripts.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (754 -> 755), and add the following script to the end of the file, as a new line:

set_civilian_items -1
 100 500 3 360287970189640185 501 0 500 3 360287970189640185 502 323 500 3 360287970189640185 503 784 500 3 360287970189640185 504 0 500 3 360287970189640186 501 0 500 3 360287970189640186 502 244 500 3 360287970189640186 503 740 500 3 360287970189640186 504 0 500 3 360287970189640187 501 0 500 3 360287970189640187 502 344 500 3 360287970189640187 503 784 500 3 360287970189640187 504 0 500 3 360287970189640188 501 0 500 3 360287970189640188 502 293 500 3 360287970189640188 503 735 500 3 360287970189640188 504 0 500 3 360287970189640189 501 0 500 3 360287970189640189 502 347 500 3 360287970189640189 503 743 500 3 360287970189640189 504 0 500 3 360287970189640190 501 0 500 3 360287970189640190 502 403 500 3 360287970189640190 503 784 500 3 360287970189640190 504 0 500 3 360287970189640191 501 0 500 3 360287970189640191 502 389 500 3 360287970189640191 503 745 500 3 360287970189640191 504 0 500 3 360287970189640192 501 0 500 3 360287970189640192 502 319 500 3 360287970189640192 503 784 500 3 360287970189640192 504 0 500 3 360287970189640193 501 0 500 3 360287970189640193 502 322 500 3 360287970189640193 503 744 500 3 360287970189640193 504 0 500 3 360287970189640194 501 0 500 3 360287970189640194 502 633 500 3 360287970189640194 503 784 500 3 360287970189640194 504 0 500 3 360287970189640195 501 0 500 3 360287970189640195 502 354 500 3 360287970189640195 503 745 500 3 360287970189640195 504 0 500 3 360287970189640196 501 0 500 3 360287970189640196 502 576 500 3 360287970189640196 503 745 500 3 360287970189640196 504 0 500 3 360287970189640197 501 0 500 3 360287970189640197 502 255 500 3 360287970189640197 503 734 500 3 360287970189640197 504 0 500 3 360287970189640198 501 0 500 3 360287970189640198 502 379 500 3 360287970189640198 503 744 500 3 360287970189640198 504 0 500 3 360287970189640199 501 0 500 3 360287970189640199 502 306 500 3 360287970189640199 503 736 500 3 360287970189640199 504 0 500 3 360287970189640200 501 0 500 3 360287970189640200 502 248 500 3 360287970189640200 503 737 500 3 360287970189640200 504 0 500 3 360287970189640201 501 0 500 3 360287970189640201 502 374 500 3 360287970189640201 503 745 500 3 360287970189640201 504 0 500 3 360287970189640202 501 0 500 3 360287970189640202 502 296 500 3 360287970189640202 503 784 500 3 360287970189640202 504 0 500 3 360287970189640203 501 0 500 3 360287970189640203 502 297 500 3 360287970189640203 503 738 500 3 360287970189640203 504 0 500 3 360287970189640204 501 0 500 3 360287970189640204 502 329 500 3 360287970189640204 503 736 500 3 360287970189640204 504 0 500 3 360287970189640310 501 1068 500 3 360287970189640310 502 396 500 3 360287970189640310 503 736 500 3 360287970189640310 504 0 500 3 360287970189640311 501 1068 500 3 360287970189640311 502 322 500 3 360287970189640311 503 736 500 3 360287970189640311 504 0 500 3 360287970189640312 501 1068 500 3 360287970189640312 502 605 500 3 360287970189640312 503 745 500 3 360287970189640312 504 0 500 3 360287970189640313 501 1068 500 3 360287970189640313 502 340 500 3 360287970189640313 503 784 500 3 360287970189640313 504 0 500 3 360287970189640314 501 1068 500 3 360287970189640314 502 397 500 3 360287970189640314 503 745 500 3 360287970189640314 504 0 


Make sure you have an empty line at the very end of the file!

7) If you are not satisfied with the outfit of companions (claimants will keep what they start with), then you can change them to your liking. The code seen in the previous point consists of 4 repeating fragments, taken from this piece as an example:

500 3 360287970189640185 501 0 500 3 360287970189640185 502 322 500 3 360287970189640185 503 772 500 3 360287970189640185 504 0

500 3 360287970189640185 501 0
500 3 360287970189640185 502 323
500 3 360287970189640185 503 784
500 3 360287970189640185 504 0

The blue number is the troop ID (360287970189639680 + troop sequence number seen in Morgh's Editor), Adonja in this case. The lime numbers are slots: Head (501), Torso (502), Legs (503) and Hands (504). The fuchsia numbers are the given item sequence numbers seen in Morgh's Editor. 0 means an empty slot, 323 is Merchant_Outfit and 784 is Dark_Leather_Boots.

8) Next, open mission_templates.txt, and increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 2 under the following sections:

mst_visit_town_castle (9 -> 11)
mst_visit_castle_castle (9 -> 11)
mst_visit_town_castle_ghostlady (10 -> 12)

9) For each section, add the following 2 lines (triggers) right under the previously increased counter, as a new line each:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  7 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 6 3 1224979098644774913 4 8 1541 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640711 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774914 -1 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 4  37 1700 1 1224979098644774912 1541 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189640711 4 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 -1 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 4 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 3 0 1541 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640711 5 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 -1 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 5 2147483679 2 1224979098644774916 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 3 0 1541 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640711 6 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 -1 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 6 2147483679 2 1224979098644774918 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774918 3 0 1541 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189640711 7 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774919 -1 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 7 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774920 3 0 
-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  4 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 33 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189640310 360287970189640315  39 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1 1 936748722493063922 520 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 501 520 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 502 520 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 503 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 504 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774914 0 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 4 2147483679 2 1224979098644774918 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774918 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774912 5 2147483679 2 1224979098644774919 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 6 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774920 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1779 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 5 0 1804 3 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774912 7 2147483679 2 1224979098644774921 -1 1774 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774921 3 0 


10) Now, open conversation.txt and find this piece:

dlga_lord_talk:companion_lord_trade 69631 475  3


11) Increase the 3 by 1 (3 -> 4) and add this code right after it, separated by 1 gap from both sides:

2147483679 2 144115188075856070 1


12) We are almost done. Open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter at the top of the file by 2 (3139 -> 3141), and put these two strings to the end of the file (as a new line each):

qstr_You_need_to_have_9_fr You_need_to_have_9_free_slots_in_your_inventory_for_this_action.
qstr_{s5}_returned_back_a {s5}_returned_back_as_it_is_not_a_civilian_item.


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end of the file.

13) Lastly, here are the highlighted numbers from above to be adjusted - according to the following formulas -, in case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in the given file:

864691128455135551 (menus.txt, in point 4): 864691128455135232 + № of the menu from point 5 (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 (quick_strings.txt, in point 4): 1585267068834414592 + № of the quick_string from point 12 (line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417732 (quick_strings.txt, in point 5): 1585267068834414592 + № of the quick_string from point 12 (line-2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063922 (scripts.txt, in point 9): 936748722493063168 + № of the script from point 6 (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 q)

To make the troop-giving feature to your vassals as king/queen become mutual - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

With this tweak, you will not only be able to give troops to your vassals the normal way, but also be able to take troops from their party. This will allow you to get rare household troops like Iron Circle Centurions in bigger numbers, or simply some more KO knights to reinforce your party for instance. But beware, since overusing this new option might be too much, as those troops would always come free, plus your vassals will automatically replenish them over time, making it an almost infinite source of strong troops.

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this line:

dlga_lord_give_troops:lord_pretalk 4095 589  0 Well,_I_could_use_some_good_soldiers._Thank_you.  227  2 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 10 2056 1 1224979098644774912 NO_VOICEOVER


2) And replace it with this:

dlga_lord_give_troops:lord_pretalk 4095 589  0 Well,_I_could_use_some_good_soldiers._Thank_you.  227  2 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 10 2043 2 0 1224979098644774912 NO_VOICEOVER


3) In case of other mods, just find the line that starts with dlga_lord_give_troops:lord_pretalk, find 2056 1 in there and replace it with 2043 2 0

Tweak 15 r)

To add an option to keep your fiefs while telling your king to release you from your oath to him - credits to Leonion and VonDegurechaff

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

2 1 6 936748722493063669 23 360287970189639680 -1 144115188075855892 144115188075855894 1 2 936748722493063551 1


And replace it with this:

3 1 6 936748722493063669 23 360287970189639680 -1 144115188075855892 144115188075855894 1 2 936748722493063551 0 1 2 936748722493063553 360287970189639680


In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to find them and have a correct replacement. So, replace:

936748722493063669 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of add_log_entry script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855894 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop_faction variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063551 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of player_leave_faction script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063553 with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of activate_player_faction script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

2) Then browse through these conversation lines (search for only the dlga_ IDs in case of other mods):

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_2:lord_ask_leave_service_verify_again 4095 708  0 Then_you_are_sure?_Also,_be_aware_that_if_you_leave_my_services,_you_will_be_surrendering_to_me_all_the_fiefs_which_you_hold_in_my_name.

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_verify_again:lord_ask_leave_service_3 69631 710  0 Yes,_{s65}.

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_3:lord_ask_leave_service_end 4095 711  0 As_you_wish._I_hereby_declare_your_oaths_to_be_null_and_void._You_will_no_longer_hold_land_or_titles_in_my_name,_and_you_are_released_from_your_duties_to_my_house._You_are_free,_{playername}.

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_end:lord_ask_leave_service_end_2 69631 712  0 Thank_you,_sir._It_was_an_honor_to_serve_you..

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_end:lord_ask_leave_service_end_2.1 69631 712  0 My_thanks._It_feels_good_to_be_{reg63?a_free_man:free}_once_again.

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_end_2:close_window 4095 713  0 Farewell_then,_{playername},_and_good_luck_go_with_you.


3) And adjust the bolded parts to something else that fits better with the changed circumstances (keeping the fiefs you had). Or, you can replace the above lines with these respectively:

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_2:lord_ask_leave_service_verify_again 4095 708  0 Then_you_are_sure?_Also,_be_aware_that_if_you_leave_my_services,_you_must_surrender_to_me_all_the_fiefs_which_you_hold_in_my_name.

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_verify_again:lord_ask_leave_service_3 69631 710  0 Yes,_{s65},_but_I_have_no_intention_of_giving_up_my_fiefs.

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_3:lord_ask_leave_service_end 4095 711  0 What_treachery_is_this?_Your_fiefs_rightfully_belong_to_my_kingdom!

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_end:lord_ask_leave_service_end_2 69631 712  0 I_don't_think_so!

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_end:lord_ask_leave_service_end_2.1 69631 712  0 I_already_set_my_mind_on_becoming_a_sovereign_of_my_own_lands.

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_end_2:close_window 4095 713  0 Curse_you_{playername}!_Mark_my_words,_you'll_regret_your_decision!


4) Alternatively, you may keep all the original options while just adding a new one which allows to take your fiefs with you. For that, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153) and add this line to the end of the file:

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_verify_again:close_window 69631 710  0 No,_I_won't_give_up_my_fiefs!  6  2 1 2 936748722493063551 0 1 2 936748722493063553 360287970189639680 NO_VOICEOVER 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file! The dialogue will be available upon renouncing your oath. After choosing this option, the game will be the same as if you started a rebellion, but you'll also start a battle for honor with the king. If you don't want that, then insert this line instead of the previous one:

dlga_lord_ask_leave_service_verify_again:close_window 69631 710  0 No,_I_won't_give_up_my_fiefs!  6  3 1 2 936748722493063551 0 1 2 936748722493063553 360287970189639680 1301 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Don't forget to adjust the highlighted numbers in case of others mods! Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust this number:

710 with the number you got for lord_ask_leave_service_verify_again in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

You know how to adjust the remaining highlighted numbers.

Tweak 15 s)

To force any married couple to divorce - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak will add a button to the game that will cause a certain married couple to divorce. For example, you can use this option to marry someone who is already married. The button will be added to the "Camp -> Take an action" menu.

File: menus.txt

1) Open menus.txt, find the line that starts with "menu_camp_action", and increase the number at the end of this line by 1 (10 -> 11).

2) This line is followed by another line with a set of options. Find this piece at the end:

mno_action_retire  0  Retire_from_adventuring.  1 2060 1 864691128455135298


3) And replace it with the following:

mno_action_retire  0  Retire_from_adventuring.  1 2060 1 864691128455135298  .  mno_divorcethem1  0  Divorce_Jamshid_and_Atjahan  2 500 3 360287970189640269 30 -1 500 3 360287970189640372 30 -1


Make sure that there remains a gap at the very end of this line

4) The above option will divorce Jamshid Khan and Lady Atjahan by default. Which means that if you want to apply it for another couple, you'll have to edit it. First, rename it (Divorce_Jamshid_and_Atjahan) to the names of any other couple you want to divorce.

5) Then open the Troop Editor of Morgh's Editor and find the sequence numbers of these two people (in the above case, Jamshid_Khan is a #589 and Lady_Atjahan is #692). Add 360287970189639680 to each number. And replace the red and blue numbers respectively with those you got. In case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the pieces from point 2) and 3) as follows, in order to find them and have a correct replacement. So, replace:

864691128455135298 with the number you get for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_retirement_verify menu from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 t)

To marry any lady, lord, claimant or king - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak adds a dialogue option to marry any lady (as a male character) or any lord/lord-companion/claimant/king (hopefully as a female character) in the game. The respective dialogue will only be available when the cheatmenu is turned on. As a male character, if the lady of your choice is already married, it is best to make her divorced first with the appropriate tweak. As a female character (hopefully), the wedding will only trigger if you initiate the dialogue inside a castle hall. However, as you probably guessed by now, there is a catch in case of the latter option. Your gender won't matter actually, and your "beloved" will behave as a male husband in terms of mechanics, while you'll be the wife in the wedding scene, no matter what :D. This also means that you can't appoint your "husband" to be your minister. If the lord of your choice is already married, then it is best to make him divorced first with the appropriate tweak.

Warning: this tweak is nothing but a shortcut to marriage. Which means that it doesn't fix any of the possible issues with non-standard marriages. For example, a male player character may end up being addressed as "my wife" by a female claimant/spouse, or the marriage/relation status may not be mentioned correctly or at all among the characters notes. But in general, the practical consequences (such as RTR gain, or new dialogues about holding feasts, or reinforcing garrisons, etc.) should work fine. Also, marrying a lord of another kingdom will instantly make you a vassal of that faction, even if you already had your own kingdom. So make sure that you marry someone who is within the same faction as you!

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following entries (or just the one you'd like to have) to the end of the file as a new line each:

lady_marry_me
lord_marry_me


Look at the serial numbers of the respective lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep those numbers in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

2) Next, open conversation.txt, increase the counter found in the 2nd line of the file by 4 (4152 -> 4156; or by 2 if you decided to add only one of the above options)

3) Then find the lines that start with "dlga_lady_talk:lady_profess_admiration" and "dlga_lord_talk:lord_respond_to_insult_challenge_duel" respectively, and add the following two-two lines (4 in total) after them respectively, as a new line each:

dlga_lady_talk:lady_marry_me 69631 916  1 31 2 144115188075856146 1 Cheat_--_Marry_Me  1874  1 1 4 936748722493063710 144115188075855892 360287970189639680 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lady_marry_me:close_window 4095 1874  0 Yeah,_yeah,_yeah  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER

dlga_lord_talk:lord_marry_me 69631 475  1 31 2 144115188075856146 1 Cheat_--_Marry_Me  1875  1 1 4 936748722493063710 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_marry_me:close_window 4095 1875  0 Yeah,_yeah,_yeah  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER


4) Make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line match the value calculated in point 1). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt or if you only want to add one of the above options. Otherwise everything will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (1-1 in the first 2 lines) with the number you got for lady_marry_me
1875 (1-1 in the second 2 lines) with the number you got for lord_marry_me

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

916 (line 1) with the number you got for lady_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075856146 (line 1 & 3) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063710 (line 1 & 3) with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of courtship_event_bride_marry_groom script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 (line 1 & 3) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
6 (line 2 & 4) with the number you got for close_window in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
475 (line 3) with the number you got for lord_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 15 u)

To access any lady's equipment - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak is only available when the cheatmenu is turned on. Beside changing the looks of certain ladies to remove an ugly hat for example, you can also use this tweak to redesign your future wife's appearance if you want to (beside the option to buy dresses from Iris the Lotus once you get married to her). Note that upon removing an undesired piece of clothing, the given lady might have an extra one in her pocket. So check her inventory again and remove that one as well. And do it once again, if she's persistent.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add these 2 lines to the end of the file:

lady_equipcheat
lady_equipcheatfinish


2) Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep those numbers in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 3 (4152 -> 4155)

4) Find the line that starts with dlga_lady_talk:lady_profess_admiration and add the following 3 lines after it, as a new line each:

dlga_lady_talk:lady_equipcheat 69631 916  1 31 2 144115188075856146 1 Cheat_--_Let_me_see_your_equipment  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lady_equipcheat:lady_equipcheatfinish 4095 1874  0 Yeah,_yeah,_yeah  1875  1 2051  0 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_lady_equipcheatfinish:lady_talk 4095 1875  0 Anything_else?  916  0 NO_VOICEOVER


5) Make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line match the values calculated in point 2). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt or if you are trying to apply this tweak to another mod. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 2) with the number you got for lady_equipcheat
1875 (line 2 & 3) with the number you got for lady_equipcheatfinish

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers:

916 with the number you got for lady_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075856146 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

16. Companions (17)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
16 a) To disable unhappy companions from leaving your party
16 b) To enable the "we hang deserters" option to convince companions to stay in your party
16 c) To disable companion complaints
16 d) To change the hiring cost and personality of companions
16 e) To change the chances, kind and amount of obtained troops when asking companions for more soldiers
16 f) To change the chances, kind and amount of obtained troops when companions return from gathering right to rule
16 g) To change some factors about companions spreading the word about you
16 h) To be able to ask for the composition of your own garrisons from companions
16 i) To be able to garrison companions
16 j) To add options to raise the stats of companions
16 k) To export/import companions
16 l) To add bodyguard companions into scenes
16 m) To turn your wife into a companion
16 n) To be able to hire unique spawn leaders as companions when taken prisoner
16 o) To make all companions contribute their prisoner management skill to the total prisoner limit
16 p) To make the equipment of medium- and high-tier companions great again, and lock their inventories up until certain levels
16 q) To adapt Custom Commander to PoP


Tweak 16 a)

To disable unhappy companions from leaving your party - credits to Leonion, BananaFruit and Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

First of all, it is worth to mention a native issue regarding the convincing of companions to stay in your party. The quitting dialogue can be called by 2 ways:

a frequent trigger check, which will get disabled below
telling the companion that you need to part ways

While spending time on the world map, if the companion in question has a morale higher than 30, then the standard quitting/convincing dialogue will be brought up (1st method). However, if his/her morale is 30 or lower, then despite being on the world map, the conversation menu within the 2nd method will get called instead. In there, the player won't have the opportunity to convince the companion to stay, so he/she will leave, no matter what. With this tweak, this will get fixed as well, and the 30 morale requirement will be removed, so that the "parting ways" option will always lead to the default outcome. To prevent getting stuck in the dialogue screen.

Files:

simple_triggers.txt
triggers.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open simple_triggers.txt and find this piece of code:

110 1 144115188075855884


Add this piece right before it, separated by 1 gap from each side:

31 2 1 0


At the beginning of the trigger, increase the second number (the one that follows 1.000000) by 1 (101 -> 102)

This should prevent companions from ever starting the "I'm done. I'm leaving." conversation.

In case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following number. So replace:

144115188075855884 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_is_quitting variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

2) Alternatively, there's another approach. But it's worth noting that unlike the previous one, this by design lets a leave attempt slip through once, if applied on an already existing savegame. Further leave attempts will be disabled though, guaranteed. Open triggers.txt and search for:

144115188075855884 1224979098644774918 3


Replace 1224979098644774918 with 0. In case of other mods, the highlighted local variable (1224979098644774918) is kiley different. But most likely you only need to find 144115188075855884, after getting adjusted as shown in point 1)

3) Last but not least, no matter which method you applied, open conversation.txt and find this piece:

dlga_member_separate:member_separate_confirm 4095 178  1 32 2 144115188075855942 30 Oh_really?


Replace it with this:

dlga_member_separate:member_separate_confirm 4095 178  0 Oh_really?


Then find this piece:

dlga_member_separate:companion_quitting 4095 178  0 Well,_actually,


And replace it with this:

dlga_member_separate:companion_quitting 4095 178  1 31 2 1 0 Well,_actually,


Watch for the gaps! In case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from above. So replace:

178 with the number you got for member_separate in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855942 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_quit_morale variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 b)

To enable the "we hang deserters" option to convince companions to stay in your party

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following 3 entries to the end of the file:

companion_quitting_no
companion_quitting_no_confirm
companion_quitting_no_confirmed


2) Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Open conversation.txt, find the line starting with dlga_companion_quitting_persuasion:companion_quitting_response, add the following 4 lines after it, as a new line each:

dlga_companion_quitting_response:companion_quitting_no 69631 318  2 31 2 1 1 31 2 144115188075855943 1 We_hang_deserters_in_this_company.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_companion_quitting_no:companion_quitting_no_confirm 4095 1874  0 Oh..._Right..._Do_you_mean_that?  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_companion_quitting_no_confirm:companion_quitting_no_confirmed 69631 1875  0 Absolutely._You_either_leave_this_company_by_my_command,_or_are_carried_out_on_your_shield.  1876  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_companion_quitting_no_confirm:companion_quitting_yes 69631 1875  0 No,_actually_I_don't_mean_that._You_are_free_to_leave.  319  0 NO_VOICEOVER


That 1 is a toggle switch (1: ON, 0: OFF), so you can turn this whole conversation option ON/OFF at your will.

4) Next, find the line starting with dlga_companion_quitting_yes:close_window and add the following line after it, as a new line:

dlga_companion_quitting_no_confirmed:close_window 4095 1876  0 Hm._I_suppose_I'm_staying,_then.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER


5) Make sure that the highlighted numbers in each line match the values calculated in point 2). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 2) with the number you got for companion_quitting_no
1875 (line 2, 3 & 4) with the number you got for companion_quitting_no_confirm
1876 (line 3 & 5) with the number you got for companion_quitting_no_confirmed

6) Lastly, increase the counter found in the 2nd line of conversation.txt by 5 (4152 -> 4157). Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from above. So replace:

318 (point 3), line 1) with the number you got for companion_quitting_response in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855943 (point 3), line 1) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of player_can_refuse_npc_quitting variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
319 (point 3), line 4) with the number you got for companion_quitting_yes in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
6 (point 4) with the number you got for close_window in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 c)

To disable companion complaints - credits to Alex Toews and Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

scripts.txt
simple_triggers.txt
menus.txt

1) To prevent companions from complaining about each other after battle, open scripts.txt and find this piece of code:

2133 2 144115188075857049 74 1025


Change that 1025 to 31. In case of other mods, you'll also need to replace the following number in order to find the piece:

144115188075857049 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_map_talk_context variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

2) To prevent companions from complaining about you raiding villages, stealing from peasants, robbing caravans, failing to feed or pay your troops, fleeing from battle, getting defeated, failing quests, etc., open simple_triggers.txt and find this piece of code:

1025 2 144115188075855964 -1


Change that 1025 to 31. In case of other mods, you'll also need to replace the following number in order to find the piece:

144115188075855964 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_with_grievance variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

3) To prevent companions from doing the "I don't like this companion for this and that" complaints, open simple_triggers.txt and find this piece of code:

1025 2 144115188075855882 -1


Change that 1025 to 31. In case of other mods, you'll also need to replace the following number in order to find the piece:

144115188075855882 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_with_personality_clash variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

4) Alternatively, you can combine the previous ones into one and disable all the negative consequences too. To do this, open simple_triggers.txt and find these 4 pieces:

32 2 144115188075855884 0 31 2 144115188075856167 0

32 2 144115188075855964 0 31 2 144115188075856167 0

32 2 144115188075855882 0 31 2 144115188075856167 0

32 2 144115188075855885 0 31 2 144115188075856167 0


Replace all 0 with 10. Watch for the gaps! In case of other mods, you'll also need to replace the following numbers in order to find all pieces:

144115188075855884 (piece #1) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_is_quitting variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856167 (all pieces) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_infinite_camping variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855964 (piece #2) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_with_grievance variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855882 (piece #3) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_with_personality_clash variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855885 (piece #4) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_with_political_grievance variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Now open scripts.txt and find the post_battle_personality_clash_check script. Increase the first number (operation counter) in this script's body by 3 (228 -> 231). Then insert this piece right after the previously increased counter:

4 0 31 2 144115188075856167 10


Lastly, add "3 0" to the end of the whole script (after "1 3 0 3 0 3 0" in case of PoP). Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains between each number. Also, make sure that there is a gap at the end of the entry too. In case of other mods, don't forget to adjust the 144115188075856167 as shown above!

Next, open menus.txt, find the line that starts with menu_camp_action, and increase the number at the end of this line by 1 (10 -> 11). Lastly, find this:

mno_camp_recruit_prisoners


And replace it with the following piece of code:

mno_stop_comp_compl  0  Disable_companion_complaints  2 2133 2 144115188075856918 2 2133 2 144115188075855883 -10  .  mno_camp_recruit_prisoners


Make sure that there is 1 gap at the beginning and 2 at the end of the inserted piece! To apply the effects of this point, just press the button called "Disable companion complaints" appearing in your "Camp -> Take an action" menu. Note that the effects cannot be reverted after pressing the button. In case of other mods, you'll also need to replace the following numbers in order to have a correct replacement:

144115188075856918 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of disable_npc_complaints variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855883 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of personality_clash_after_24_hrs variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 d)

To change the hiring cost and personality of companions - credits to AK47 and Fandom User

This tweak requires a new game to take effect by default, however you can use the above linked savegame editor to make personalities editable mid-game
This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) The cost-personality pairs for each companion can be found under the initialize_npcs script, in the following order:

Adonja:

500 3 360287970189640185 141 1200 500 3 360287970189640185 143 2 500 3 360287970189640185 144 360287970189640203 500 3 360287970189640185 67 648518346341351456 500 3 360287970189640185 14 0 500 3 360287970189640185 52 8


Leslie:

500 3 360287970189640186 141 0 500 3 360287970189640186 143 2 500 3 360287970189640186 144 360287970189640198 500 3 360287970189640186 67 648518346341351446 500 3 360287970189640186 14 0 500 3 360287970189640186 52 9


Ansen:

500 3 360287970189640187 141 0 500 3 360287970189640187 143 4 500 3 360287970189640187 144 360287970189640204 500 3 360287970189640187 67 648518346341351448 500 3 360287970189640187 14 432345564227567635 500 3 360287970189640187 52 7


Riva:

500 3 360287970189640188 141 1500 500 3 360287970189640188 143 1 500 3 360287970189640188 144 360287970189640194 500 3 360287970189640188 67 648518346341351449 500 3 360287970189640188 14 432345564227567631 500 3 360287970189640188 52 8


Kassim:

500 3 360287970189640189 141 800 500 3 360287970189640189 143 2 500 3 360287970189640189 144 360287970189640202 500 3 360287970189640189 67 648518346341351459 500 3 360287970189640189 14 432345564227567633 500 3 360287970189640189 52 4


Lethaldiran:

500 3 360287970189640190 141 6000 500 3 360287970189640190 143 2 500 3 360287970189640190 144 360287970189640196 500 3 360287970189640190 67 648518346341351449 500 3 360287970189640190 14 0 500 3 360287970189640190 52 4


Sir Jocelyn:

500 3 360287970189640191 141 5000 500 3 360287970189640191 143 2 500 3 360287970189640191 144 360287970189640199 500 3 360287970189640191 67 648518346341351459 500 3 360287970189640191 14 432345564227567631 500 3 360287970189640191 52 9


Sir Alistair:

500 3 360287970189640192 141 5000 500 3 360287970189640192 143 5 500 3 360287970189640192 144 360287970189640201 500 3 360287970189640192 67 648518346341351447 500 3 360287970189640192 14 432345564227567634 500 3 360287970189640192 52 1


Sir Rayne:

500 3 360287970189640193 141 5000 500 3 360287970189640193 143 2 500 3 360287970189640193 144 360287970189640195 500 3 360287970189640193 67 648518346341351458 500 3 360287970189640193 14 432345564227567632 500 3 360287970189640193 52 1


Julia:

500 3 360287970189640194 141 800 500 3 360287970189640194 143 2 500 3 360287970189640194 144 360287970189640188 500 3 360287970189640194 67 648518346341351450 500 3 360287970189640194 14 432345564227567635 500 3 360287970189640194 52 9


Frederick of Mettenheim:

500 3 360287970189640195 141 6000 500 3 360287970189640195 143 4 500 3 360287970189640195 144 360287970189640193 500 3 360287970189640195 67 648518346341351451 500 3 360287970189640195 14 0 500 3 360287970189640195 52 10


Ediz:

500 3 360287970189640196 141 3000 500 3 360287970189640196 143 2 500 3 360287970189640196 144 360287970189640190 500 3 360287970189640196 67 648518346341351463 500 3 360287970189640196 14 432345564227567633 500 3 360287970189640196 52 9


Sara the Fox:

500 3 360287970189640197 141 1500 500 3 360287970189640197 143 1 500 3 360287970189640197 144 360287970189640200 500 3 360287970189640197 67 648518346341351461 500 3 360287970189640197 14 0 500 3 360287970189640197 52 5


Donavan:

500 3 360287970189640198 141 3000 500 3 360287970189640198 143 4 500 3 360287970189640198 144 360287970189640186 500 3 360287970189640198 67 648518346341351453 500 3 360287970189640198 14 0 500 3 360287970189640198 52 1


Diev Wodenssen:

500 3 360287970189640199 141 4000 500 3 360287970189640199 143 2 500 3 360287970189640199 144 360287970189640191 500 3 360287970189640199 67 648518346341351458 500 3 360287970189640199 14 432345564227567632 500 3 360287970189640199 52 9


Alyssa:

500 3 360287970189640200 141 2000 500 3 360287970189640200 143 2 500 3 360287970189640200 144 360287970189640197 500 3 360287970189640200 67 648518346341351448 500 3 360287970189640200 14 432345564227567635 500 3 360287970189640200 52 2


Sir Roland:

500 3 360287970189640201 141 8000 500 3 360287970189640201 143 2 500 3 360287970189640201 144 360287970189640192 500 3 360287970189640201 67 648518346341351447 500 3 360287970189640201 14 0 500 3 360287970189640201 52 6


Kaverra:

500 3 360287970189640202 141 2000 500 3 360287970189640202 143 2 500 3 360287970189640202 144 360287970189640189 500 3 360287970189640202 67 648518346341351446 500 3 360287970189640202 14 432345564227567634 500 3 360287970189640202 52 9


Sigismund Sinclair:

500 3 360287970189640203 141 4000 500 3 360287970189640203 143 2 500 3 360287970189640203 144 360287970189640185 500 3 360287970189640203 67 648518346341351457 500 3 360287970189640203 14 432345564227567634 500 3 360287970189640203 52 9


Boadice:

500 3 360287970189640204 141 6000 500 3 360287970189640204 143 4 500 3 360287970189640204 144 360287970189640187 500 3 360287970189640204 67 648518346341351447 500 3 360287970189640204 14 0 500 3 360287970189640204 52 1


2) The numbers in blue are the hiring costs (in denars), while the numbers in red are the personality. The latter are as follows:

1 = martial
2 = bad-tempered (a.k.a. quarrelsome)
3 = pitiless (a.k.a. selfrighteous)
4 = cunning
5 = sadistic (a.k.a. debauched)
6 = good-natured
7 = upstanding
8 = roguish
9 = benefactor
10 = mercantile (a.k.a. custodian)

Change them to your liking. Here are some ideas for more fitting personalities (thanks to dani26795):

Ansen: upstanding -> good-natured
Sir Alistair: martial -> sadistic
Ediz: benefactor -> roguish
Sara: sadistic -> cunning
Donavan: martial -> pitiless
Sir Roland: good-natured -> upstanding
Kaverra: benefactor -> roguish
Boadice: martial -> pitiless

3) Alternatively - as mentioned - you can use the above linked savegame editor to change the personalities mid-game. You need to look for slot_lord_reputation_type (52) under the #slots section of each companion (troop #505 - #524). You can use this method to change the personality of every other lord too!

4) In case of other mods, under initialize_npcs script, simply find these 2 pieces for each companion:

500 3 360287970189640204 141 6000

500 3 360287970189640204 52 1


Where the highlighted numbers have to be adjusted as follows in order to find all instances:

360287970189640204: 360287970189639680 + № of a companion from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
6000: hiring cost
1: personality

Tweak 16 e)

To change the chances, kind and amount of obtained troops when asking companions for more soldiers - credits to BananaFruit and Димасик

Files:

scripts.txt
conversation.txt

1) To change the chances, open scripts.txt and find the following 3 pieces under the script called ask_companions_for_unique_troops:

2147483678 2 144115188075857280 30

2147483678 2 144115188075857280 65

2147483678 2 144115188075857280 90

Your chance of hiring no troops (in %) is 30, so changing this to 0 will always get you some troops.
Your chance of hiring the lowest quality troops (in %) is 65 - 30.
Your chance of hiring the medium quality troops (in %) is 90 - 65.
Your chance of hiring the best quality troops (in %) is 100 - 90.

Changes these values (ranges) to your liking. For example, for approximately equal chances for all troops (while being guaranteed to get some), you can set 0, 33, 66.

2) To change the kind of troops, open scripts.txt and under ask_companions_for_unique_troops, find the following instances for the given companions respectively. The highlighted numbers stand for the troops marked with the same color down below:

Adonja:

360287970189640185 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639908

360287970189640185 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639909

360287970189640185 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639910


Mystmountain_Warrior (basic), Mystmountain_Shaman (medium), Bearclaw_Berserker (elite)

Leslie:

360287970189640186 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639919

360287970189640186 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639921

360287970189640186 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639922


Maiden_Ranger (basic), Maiden_Adventurer (medium), Heroine_Adventurer (elite)

Ansen:

360287970189640187 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639756

360287970189640187 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640096

360287970189640187 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640095


Melitine_Free_Brother (basic), Melitine_Lancer (medium), Melitine_Imperial_Guard (elite)

Riva:

360287970189640188 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639932

360287970189640188 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639937

360287970189640188 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639970


Rogue_Sarleon_Squire (basic), Sarleon_Rogue_Knight (medium), Red_Fletcher_Longbowman (elite)

Kassim:

360287970189640189 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639900

360287970189640189 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639934

360287970189640189 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639902


D'Shar_Outlaw_Chieftain (basic), D'Shar_Rogue_Knight (medium), D'Shar_Deathwind_Savaran (elite)

Lethaldiran:

360287970189640190 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639880

360287970189640190 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639881

360287970189640190 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639942


Pendor_Heavy_Bowman (basic), Pendor_Armored_Bowman (medium), Noldor_Hunter (elite)

Sir Jocelyn:

360287970189640191 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639888

360287970189640191 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639890

360287970189640191 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639892


Monk (basic), War_Priest (medium), Inquisitor (elite)

Sir Alistair:

360287970189640192 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639924

360287970189640192 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640079

360287970189640192 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639923


Young_D'Shar_Adventurer (basic), Eventide_Ghilman (medium), Hero_Adventurer (elite)

Sir Rayne:

360287970189640193 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639919

360287970189640193 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640071

360287970189640193 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640085


Maiden_Ranger (basic), Talon_of_the_Falcon (medium), Maiden_Noble (elite)

Julia:

360287970189640194 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639851

360287970189640194 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639853

360287970189640194 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639864


Empire_Levy_Skirmisher (basic), Empire_Armored_Crossbowman (medium), Guardian_Empire_Knight (elite)

Frederick of Mettenheim:

360287970189640195 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639760

360287970189640195 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639961

360287970189640195 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639963


Mettenheim_Avonteurer (basic), Mettenheim_Greatsword (medium), Mettenheim_Forlorn_Hope (elite)

Ediz:

360287970189640196 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639978

360287970189640196 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639979

360287970189640196 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639999


Singalian_Horseman (basic), Singalian_Temptress (medium), Omen_Seeker (elite)

Sara the Fox:

360287970189640197 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639919

360287970189640197 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639776

360287970189640197 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640085


Maiden_Ranger (basic), Marleons_Heavy_Cavalry (medium), Maiden_Noble (elite)

Donavan:

360287970189640198 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639761

360287970189640198 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639973

360287970189640198 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639977


Barclay_Aventurier (basic), Barclay_Heavy_Soldat (medium), Barclay_Imperial_Chevalier (elite)

Diev Wodenssen:

360287970189640199 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639786

360287970189640199 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639791

360287970189640199 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639886


Ravenstern_Archer (basic), Ravenstern_Highlander (medium), Iceguard_Ranger (elite)

Alyssa:

360287970189640200 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639933

360287970189640200 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639938

360287970189640200 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640000


Rogue_Baccus_Squire (basic), Baccus_Rogue_Knight (medium), Iron_Circle_Centurion (elite)

Sir Roland:

360287970189640201 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639913

360287970189640201 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640075

360287970189640201 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639923


Warden (basic), Dawn_Wyvern (medium), Hero_Adventurer (elite)

Kaverra:

360287970189640202 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639903

360287970189640202 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639904

360287970189640202 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639905


Vanskerry_Raider (basic), Vanskerry_Warrior (medium), Vanskerry_Jarl (elite)

Sigismund Sinclair:

360287970189640203 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639939

360287970189640203 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639940

360287970189640203 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639923


Rogue_Blackheart_Squire (basic), Rogue_Blackheart_Knight (medium), Hero_Adventurer (elite)

Boadice:

360287970189640204 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639759

360287970189640204 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639968

360287970189640204 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639969


Veccavi_Man_Hunter (basic), Veccavi_Knight (medium), Veccavi_Bloodsworn_Guard (elite)

After locating the piece you wish to change, open up the Troops Editor within Morgh's Editor, find the entry number of the replacement unit of your choice, then add this number to the "troop constant", which is 360287970189639680. Put the resulting number into the place of the given highlighted troop code, found at the end of each piece.

3) To change the amount, open scripts.txt and under ask_companions_for_unique_troops, search for:

5 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 2112 3 1224979098644774914 1 6 2133 2 72057594037927972 1224979098644774914 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 2119 3 1224979098644774914 144115188075857281 3 2105 2 1224979098644774914 2 2112 3 1224979098644774914 2 5 2133 2 72057594037927972 1224979098644774914 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 2 2119 3 1224979098644774914 144115188075857281 2 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 2112 3 1224979098644774914 1 3

If you ask a companion while in a tavern, the number of hireable soldiers will be between 1 and 6. When changing this range, it is advised to change the 5 as well to a number higher than the greater of the two from the range (i.e. to >=7).
If you ask the companion while he/she is in your party, the number of hireable soldiers will be between 2 and 5. When changing this range, it is advised to change the 3 as well to a number higher than the greater of the two from the range (i.e. to >=6).
If you ask the companion while he/she is a lord, the number of hireable soldiers will be between 1 and 3. When changing this range, it is advised to change 2 as well to a number higher than the greater of the two from the range (i.e. to >=4).

4) To be able to ask for troops repeatedly, open conversation.txt and find these lines:

dlga_member_question_2:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 198  4 31 2 144115188075857279 1 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 20 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 We_are_in_need_of_more_soldiers._Could_you_help_the_party_somehow?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 1 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_companion_recruit_meet_again:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 258  4 31 2 144115188075857279 1 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 20 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 I_am_looking_for_good_soldiers._Could_you_help_me_somehow?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_companion_recruit_secondchance:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 260  4 31 2 144115188075857279 1 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 20 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 I_need_more_soldiers_in_my_party._Think_you_can_help?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_companion_rehire:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 262  4 31 2 144115188075857279 1 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 20 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 I_need_more_soldiers_in_my_party._Think_you_can_help?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_lord_talk_ask_something_2:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 610  7 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 31 2 144115188075857279 1 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 20 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 22 30 2 1224979098644774913 40 I_am_looking_for_good_soldiers,_my_friend._Could_you_help_me_out_somehow?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 2 NO_VOICEOVER 


Replace them respectively with these:

dlga_member_question_2:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 198  0 We_are_in_need_of_more_soldiers._Could_you_help_the_party_somehow?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 1 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_companion_recruit_meet_again:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 258  0 I_am_looking_for_good_soldiers._Could_you_help_me_somehow?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_companion_recruit_secondchance:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 260  0 I_need_more_soldiers_in_my_party._Think_you_can_help?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_companion_rehire:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 262  0 I_need_more_soldiers_in_my_party._Think_you_can_help?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 

dlga_lord_talk_ask_something_2:ask_companions_for_unique_troops 69631 610  0 I_am_looking_for_good_soldiers,_my_friend._Could_you_help_me_out_somehow?  203  1 1 3 936748722493063907 144115188075855892 2 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 16 f)

To change the chances, kind and amount of obtained troops when companions return from gathering right to rule

The details about the mechanic can be found at the bottom of the Right_to_rule page, please use it as a reference to understand what will be mentioned down below.

Files: scripts.txt

1) To change the chances, under the script called rtr_quest_troops_reward, find the following 3 pieces:

2147483680 2 1224979098644774920 15 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 50 2133 2 1224979098644774922 0 3 0 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 95

2147483680 2 1224979098644774920 22 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 20 2133 2 1224979098644774922 0 3 0 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 70

2147483680 2 1224979098644774920 30 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 40


The red numbers define the player level requirement ranges for the given chances to happen, consisting of "less than or equal to" and "else" logics. So ≤15 is the 1st range, 16-22 is the 2nd range, 23-30 is the 3rd range, and >31 is the 4th range, standing for the "or else". The blue numbers are the chances within each level range for getting average/medium quality troops and the green numbers are the chances for getting elite troops. Since getting basic troops is guaranteed to happen across all level ranges, changing their values is not the subject of this tweak. Likewise, getting average/medium quality troops within the 23-30 player level range is guaranteed to happen, so that's why the chance cannot be set for that either without defining a new "else" condition. Furthermore, all troops above 31 player level are guaranteed to be brought upon a companion's return, so adjust the level range instead if you wish to change the availability of troops there.

2) To change the kind of troops, still under rtr_quest_troops_reward script, find the following instances for the given companions respectively. The highlighted numbers stand for the troops marked with the same color down below:

Adonja:

360287970189640185 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639908 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639909 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639910


Mystmountain_Warrior (basic), Mystmountain_Shaman (medium), Bearclaw_Berserker (elite)

Leslie:

360287970189640186 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639870 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639921 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639922


Pendor_Heavy_Spearman (basic), Maiden_Adventurer (medium), Heroine_Adventurer (elite)

Ansen:

360287970189640187 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639871 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640072 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640015


Pendor_Man-at-Arms (basic), Raven_Spear_Mercenary (medium), Knight_of_the_Raven_Spear (elite)

Riva:

360287970189640188 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639970 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640074 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640017


Red_Fletcher_Longbowman (basic), Larian_Sentinel (medium), Ranger_of_the_Clarion_Call (elite)

Kassim:

360287970189640189 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639902 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639822 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640025


D'Shar_Deathwind_Savaran (basic), D'Shar_Djaha_Archer (medium), Scorpion_Assassin (elite)

Lethaldiran:

360287970189640190 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639942 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639943 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639941


Noldor_Hunter (basic), Noldor_Warrior (medium), Noldor_Ranger (elite)

Sir Jocelyn:

360287970189640191 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640078 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640073 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640018


Silvermist_Halberdier (basic), Radiant_Cross_Plaguewarden (medium), Knight_of_the_Dawn (elite)

Sir Alistair:

360287970189640192 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640079 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640042 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640022


Eventide_Ghilman (basic), Heretic_Magnus (medium), Knight_of_Eventide (elite)

Sir Rayne:

360287970189640193 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640071 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639798 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640014


Talon_of_the_Falcon (basic), Ravenstern_Knight (medium), Knight_of_the_Falcon (elite)

Julia:

360287970189640194 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639856 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639853 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640000


Empire_Armored_Pikeman (basic), Empire_Armored_Crossbowman (medium), Iron_Circle_Centurion (elite)

Frederick of Mettenheim:

360287970189640195 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639959 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639961 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639963


Mettenheim_Regular_Crossbow (basic), Mettenheim_Greatsword (medium), Mettenheim_Forlorn_Hope (elite)

Ediz:

360287970189640196 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639978 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639979 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639999


Singalian_Horseman (basic), Singalian_Temptress (medium), Omen_Seeker (elite)

Sara the Fox:

360287970189640197 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639774 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639776 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639779


Sarleon_Man-at-Arms (basic), Marleons_Heavy_Cavalry (medium), Sarleon_Knight (elite)

Donavan:

360287970189640198 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639974 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639973 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639977


Barclay_Balestra (basic), Barclay_Heavy_Soldat (medium), Barclay_Imperial_Chevalier (elite)

Diev Wodenssen:

360287970189640199 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639788 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639794 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639886


Ravenstern_Man-at-Arms (basic), Ravenstern_Ranger (medium), Iceguard_Ranger (elite)

Alyssa:

360287970189640200 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639953 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639954 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639956


Snake_Cult_Armsman (basic), Cobra_Warrior (medium), Serpent_Priestess (elite)

Sir Roland:

360287970189640201 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640075 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639892 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640018


Dawn_Wyvern (basic), Inquisitor (medium), Knight_of_the_Dawn (elite)

Kaverra:

360287970189640202 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639836 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639828 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640026


Fierdsvain_Heavy_Skirmisher (basic), Fierdsvain_Huntress (medium), Kraken_Riddari (elite)

Sigismund Sinclair:

360287970189640203 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639881 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639872 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639878


Pendor_Armored_Bowman (basic), Pendor_Bladesman (medium), Pendor_Foot_Knight (elite)

Boadice:

360287970189640204 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639965 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640092 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639969


Veccavi_Krom_Guard (basic), Veccavi_Uncut (medium), Veccavi_Bloodsworn_Guard (elite)

After locating the piece you wish to change, open up the Troops Editor within Morgh's Editor, find the entry number of the replacement unit of your choice, then add this number to the "troop constant", which is 360287970189639680. Put the resulting number into the place of the given highlighted troop code, found at the end of each piece.

3) To change the amount, find the following piece:

2136 3 1224979098644774917 7 10 2136 3 1224979098644774918 3 6 2136 3 1224979098644774919 1 4


The possible amount of troops acquired are rolled randomly from a range, of which the higher end will be lowered by 1 compared to the set amount. [7 10-1] is the possible range for basic troops, [3 6-1] is the possible range for medium quality troops and [1 4-1] is the possible amount of elite troops received.

Tweak 16 g)

To change some factors about companions spreading the word about you - credits to Alex Toews and Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: conversation.txt

1) For the amount of right to rule gained when companions return, find this piece of code:

2133 2 144115188075855886 0 1 2 936748722493063755 3


That 3 is the amount of right to rule you get.

2) For the amount of days after companions will return, find this piece of code:

21 500 3 144115188075855892


That 21 is the amount of days required.

3) Change these values to your liking! In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the pieces from point 1 and 2) as follows, in order to find them. So, replace:

144115188075855886 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of npc_to_rejoin_party variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
936748722493063755 with the number you get for: 936748722493063168 + № of change_player_right_to_rule script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 h)

To be able to ask for the composition of your own garrisons from companions - credits to VonDegurechaff

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

The option will be available under any companion's "I want to ask you something" conversation menu.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following 4 lines to the end of the file:

get_garr_info
get_garr_info_choose
get_garr_info_info
get_garr_info_info_show


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

2) Next, open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 6 (4152 -> 4158)

3) Then add these 6 lines to the end of the file, as a new line each:

dlga_member_question_2:get_garr_info 69631 198  7 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 6 3 1224979098644774913 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 521 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 7 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 1 I_would_like_information_on_the_garrison_of_my_fief.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_get_garr_info:get_garr_info_choose 4095 1874  0 Of_course_{reg63?sir:my_lady},_which_garrison_do_you_want_to_receive_information_about?  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_get_garr_info_choose:member_question_2_return 69631 1875  0 Nothing.  206  0 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_get_garr_info_choose:get_garr_info_info 86015‬ 1875 8 50 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 0 33 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 521 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 7 31 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1601 2 72057594037927941 1224979098644774912 2319 1 2 2330 2 2 1224979098644774912 {s2}_({reg5})  1876  3 50 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075855914 1224979098644774912 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_get_garr_info_info:get_garr_info_info_show 4095 1876  1 1601 2 72057594037927942 144115188075855914 Total_number_of_troops:_{reg6}.  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_get_garr_info_info_show:member_question_2_return 90111‬‬ 1877  9 50 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927942 2105 2 72057594037927942 1 1653 3 72057594037927941 144115188075855914 1224979098644774912 2106 2 72057594037927942 72057594037927941 1652 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855914 1224979098644774912 2319 1 2 2323 2 2 1224979098644774913 {s2}_({reg5})  206  0 NO_VOICEOVER


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

4) Lastly, check if the highlighted numbers in each line match the values calculated in point 1). It is only needed to check them if you added something else to dialog_states.txt due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 2) with the number you got for get_garr_info
1875 (line 2, 3 & 4) with the number you got for get_garr_info_choose
1876 (line 4 & 5) with the number you got for get_garr_info_info
1877 (line 5 & 6) with the number you got for get_garr_info_info_show

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from above. So replace:

198 (line 1) with the number you got for member_question_2 in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
648518346341351446 (line 1 & 4) with the number you got for: 648518346341351424 + № of p_town_1 from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
648518346341351504 (line 1 & 4) with the number you got for: 648518346341351424 + № of the party after the last castle in parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor) (p_castle_40 + 1 in case of PoP)
206 (line 3 & 6) with the number you got for member_question_2_return in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855914 (line 4; line 5; line 6, 2 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of temp variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 i)

To be able to garrison companions - credits to BananaFruit

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!
This tweak requires a new game to take effect by default, however you can use the above linked savegame editor to make the changes savegame-compatible

File: troops.txt

1) Open up the Troop editor within Morgh's Editor

2) Search for all 20 companions and disable/uncheck the Unmovable flag for each one of them

3) Don't forget to update each companion's entry before switching to the next one, and in the end, save your changes

4) Lastly, as mentioned, you can also use the above linked savegame editor to make the changes savegame-compatible. Here's how:

1. Navigate to: troops --> #505(trp_npc_adonja Adonja) to #524(trp_npc_boadice Boadice) --> flags
2. Subtract 268435456 from the current value of flags
3. As a result, male companions should have 16, females 17, and beatiful females (Alyssa and Sara) 18 set

Tweak 16 j)

To add options to raise the stats of companions - credits to Димасик and Dalion

Point 2) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Below there will be two methods shown, one being more reasonable and immersive coming with a price, the other one being more cheaty for being free and requiring you to enable cheats as a result. They will both be accessible upon speaking to a given companion, thus the effects will apply to only one of them at a time.

File: conversation.txt

1) The first method - the recommended way - will be an actual training program becoming available once you reach 15 relations with the Noldor. The training will cost time (2 days and 8 hours by default) and pouches of diamonds of different size, the latter deciding the magnitude of the effects as follows. Also, the diamonds need to be in your inventory for the respective options to appear:

Small Pouch of Diamonds: 1 x 10000 experience, +10 to all weapon proficiencies
Medium Pouch of Diamonds: 3 x 25000 experience, +67 to all weapon proficiencies, +1 to Strength and Dexterity (represented by 2 as the amount of stats affected from start to end. I.e. make it 4 if you want it to affect only Strength and Dexterity)
Large Pouch of Diamonds: 6 x 25000 experience, +200 to all weapon proficiencies, +1 to Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence and Charisma (represented by 4 as the amount of stats affected from start to end)

Keep in mind that there's a hard limit of a single troop being unable to gain more than 30000 experience points at a time. That's why a power of two numbers is used (the first number being the amount of repetitions, e.g. 6 x 25000) to make the result bigger than this hard cap. To add this companion training program to the game, increase the counter in the second line of conversation.txt by 3 (4152 -> 4155), then search for the line that starts with dlga_member_question_2:member_fief_grant_1 and add the following 3 lines after it, as a new line each:

dlga_member_question_2:member_talk1 69631 198  4 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567643 432345564227567629 30 2 1224979098644774912 15 150 1 288230376151711873 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 I'd_like_to_send_you_to_the_Noldors_for_training._Here_are_some_diamonds_to_cover_your_expenses_(costs_a_Small_Pouch_of_Diamonds)  347  10 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1 1062 2 10000 144115188075855892 3 0 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711873 6 3 1224979098644774912 0 7 1523 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774912 10 3 0 500 3 144115188075855892 152 8 500 3 144115188075855892 151 2 1210 1 144115188075855892 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_member_question_2:member_talk2 69631 198  4 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567643 432345564227567629 30 2 1224979098644774912 15 150 1 288230376151711874 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 I'd_like_to_send_you_to_the_Noldors_for_training._Here_are_some_diamonds_to_cover_your_expenses_(costs_a_Medium_Pouch_of_Diamonds)  347  13 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 1062 2 25000 144115188075855892 3 0 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711874 6 3 1224979098644774912 0 7 1523 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774912 67 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 2 1520 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 500 3 144115188075855892 152 8 500 3 144115188075855892 151 2 1210 1 144115188075855892 NO_VOICEOVER
dlga_member_question_2:member_talk3 69631 198  4 2190 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567643 432345564227567629 30 2 1224979098644774912 15 150 1 288230376151711875 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 I'd_like_to_send_you_to_the_Noldors_for_training._Here_are_some_diamonds_to_cover_your_expenses_(costs_a_Large_Pouch_of_Diamonds)  347  13 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 6 1062 2 25000 144115188075855892 3 0 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 6 3 1224979098644774912 0 7 1523 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774912 200 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 4 1520 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 500 3 144115188075855892 152 8 500 3 144115188075855892 151 2 1210 1 144115188075855892 NO_VOICEOVER


2) In the second method, you'll have the option to upgrade the stats of companions for free. For that, increase the counter in the second line of conversation.txt by 1 (4152 -> 4153), then search for the line that starts with dlga_member_question_2:member_fief_grant_1 and add the following line after it, as a new one:

dlga_member_question_2:member_talk 69631 198  2 30 2 144115188075856146 1 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 CHEAT:_buff_this_person!  176  9 6 3 1224979098644774912 0 4 1520 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774912 30 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 42 1521 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774913 10 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 7 1523 3 144115188075855892 1224979098644774914 500 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER


The colored numbers above mean the following:

30 - how much all attributes are increased
10 - how much all skills are increased
500 - how much all weapon proficiencies are increased

3) Change the above values to something else if you are not satisfied with the default numbers! Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from point 2). So replace:

198 with the number you got for member_question_2 in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075856146 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 (4 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
360287970189640185 with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the first companion in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640205 with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the troop after the last companion in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
176 with the number you got for view_member_char_requested in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 k)

To export/import companions - credits to Vetrogor and neznaika

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

After applying the tweak, you'll be able to access the export/import feature under Camp menu -> Take an action

File: menus.txt

1) Increase the counter in the second line of the file by 2 (319 -> 321)

2) Then find the line that starts with menu_camp_action, and increase the number at the end of this line by 1 (10 -> 11)

3) Next, find mno_camp_recruit_prisoners and replace it with this:

mno_action_export_import  0  Export/import_companions.  1 2060 1 864691128455135551  .  mno_camp_recruit_prisoners


Beware that there must remain a gap at the beginning of the line!

4) And finally, add the following two menus the end of the file, as 4 new lines:

menu_export_import_npcs 256 Please_choose_a_companion,_then_press_key_C_to_view_and_export/import_this_character.^^You_choose_{reg0?{s0}:none}. none 2 2133 2 72057594037927936 144115188075856149 2322 2 0 144115188075856149 12
 mno_export_import_back  0  Go_back  3 2133 2 144115188075856149 360287970189639680 47 1 144115188075856149 2060 1 864691128455135293  .  mno_export_import_npc1  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 0 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 0 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc2  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 1 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 1 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc3  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 2 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 2 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc4  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 3 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 3 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc5  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 4 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 4 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc6  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 5 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 5 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc7  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 6 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 6 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc8  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 7 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 7 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc9  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 8 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 8 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc10  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 9 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 9 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_next  0  Next_page  1 2060 1 864691128455135552  . 
menu_export_import_npcs_2 256 Please_choose_a_companion,_then_press_key_C_to_view_and_export/import_this_character.^^You_choose_{reg0?{s0}:none}. none 2 2133 2 72057594037927936 144115188075856149 2322 2 0 144115188075856149 11
 mno_export_import_prev  0  Previous_page  1 2060 1 864691128455135551  .  mno_export_import_npc11  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 10 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 10 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc12  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 11 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 11 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc13  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 12 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 12 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc14  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 13 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 13 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc15  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 14 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 14 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc16  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 15 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 15 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc17  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 16 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 16 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc18  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 17 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 17 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc19  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 18 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 18 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  mno_export_import_npc20  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 19 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 19 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  


5) Make sure to have an empty line at the very end of the file (as it was before), otherwise the tweak won't work properly. Lastly, here are the highlighted numbers from above to be adjusted - according to the following formulas -, in case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in menus.txt:

864691128455135551 (point 3) and point 4), line 4): 864691128455135232 + № of the 1st menu from point 4 (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
864691128455135552 (point 4), line 2): 864691128455135232 + № of the 2nd menu from point 4 (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from above. So replace:

144115188075856149 (line 1, 2 instances; line 2, 24 instances; line 3, 2 instances; line 4, 2 instances per number of remaining companions on top of the previous 10) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
864691128455135293 (line 2) with the number you get for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_camp_action from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
360287970189640185 (line 2, 20 instances; line 4, 2 instances per number of remaining companions on top of the previous 10) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the first companion in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
11: submenu counter, increase or decrease it by the amount of extra or fewer companions compared to Pop's 20 (since the above menus add room for 20 companions). After doing so, add or delete just as many pieces corresponding to the following structure:
mno_export_import_npc20  2 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 19 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912  {s0}  3 2120 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 19 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774912 47 1 144115188075856149  .  


Where the highlighted values have to be adjusted as shown above, including:

mno_export_import_npc20: the number in the submenu's ID should correspond to the given companion's serial number, starting from the first companion in troops.txt
19 (2 instances): the offset added to the first companion's serial number (1), to get the serial number of the companion in question (e.g.: 1 + 19 = mno_export_import_npc20)

Tweak 16 l)

To add bodyguard companions into scenes - credits to Vetrogor and Caba'drin

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

With this tweak, bodyguards will be chosen from among the upmost companions in your party to accompany you within various scenes, to a maximum number of 4.

Files:

conversation.txt
mission_templates.txt

1) Open conversation.txt and find this piece in the line starting with dlga_start:close_window and having the Let's_leave_whenever_you_are_ready. string or something very similar in it:

4 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 1073741855 2 144115188075856070 14


2) In case of other mods, there might be more than 1 matching results (find them all), but in case of PoP, there's only one. Replace it with this:

5 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 1073741855 2 144115188075856070 14 1073741855 2 144115188075856070 0


3) Open mission_templates.txt and increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 3 under the following sections if you so desire:

mst_town_default (16 -> 19)
mst_town_center (19 -> 22)
mst_village_center (9 -> 12)
mst_bandits_at_night (9 -> 12)
mst_castle_visit (12 -> 15)
mst_sneak_caught_fight (13 -> 16)

4) Add the following 3 lines (triggers) to the end of each section, as a new line each:

-20.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  1 2147483679 2 144115188075856124 1  59 2170 3 1224979098644774912 1 360287970189639680 520 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 7 2108 2 1224979098644774912 3 2108 2 1224979098644774913 400 2120 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2110 2 1224979098644774914 4 30 2 1224979098644774914 1 1700 1 1224979098644774915 1770 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 1714 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 2133 2 1224979098644774918 0 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 0 4 2133 2 1224979098644774918 11 2133 2 1224979098644774919 792633534417207299 5 0 1073741855 2 144115188075856070 18 1073741855 2 144115188075856070 19 31 2 144115188075856070 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 24 4 0 541 3 144115188075856143 0 2 2133 2 1224979098644774919 792633534417207313 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774919 792633534417207298 3 0 5 0 31 2 144115188075856070 14 2133 2 1224979098644774918 17 3 0 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856070 14 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1940 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 0 3 0 2211 1 1224979098644774920 1261 1 1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774921 0 1650 2 1224979098644774922 648518346341351424 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774922 1652 3 1224979098644774924 648518346341351424 1224979098644774923 2147483679 2 1224979098644774924 360287970189639680 1507 1 1224979098644774924 2147485156 1 1224979098644774924 2105 2 1224979098644774921 1 4 0 1073741855 2 144115188075856070 19 31 2 144115188075856070 18 500 3 1224979098644774924 161 1 3 0 1265 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 1 31 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774922 0 3 0 32 2 1224979098644774921 0 1107 1 0 1790 3 1224979098644774916 8 1 1107 1 1 
-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  24 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1507 1 1224979098644774913 110 1 1224979098644774913 1700 1 1224979098644774914 1770 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1710 2 1 1224979098644774914 1771 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1783 2 1224979098644774912 8 1803 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 1 1807 2 1224979098644774912 1 2136 3 1224979098644774916 1 3 2107 2 1224979098644774916 100 721 2 1 1224979098644774916 2136 3 1224979098644774916 1 3 2136 3 1224979098644774917 0 2 2107 2 1224979098644774917 -1 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 0 2107 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774917 3 0 720 2 1 1224979098644774916 1711 2 1224979098644774912 1 
-26.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  6 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 1507 1 1224979098644774913 110 1 1224979098644774913 1618 3 648518346341351424 1224979098644774913 1


Be sure that there's a two-line spacing left before the next mst_ sections!

5) The number of bodyguards at a time = [Leadership/3 + Renown/400], but maximum 4. Change the respective values (marked with colors in the code above) if you'd like. Much more companions however are not recommended to add, as scenes are not designed to hold them all correctly.

6) Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from above. So replace:

4 and 5 (point 1): the operation counters. Might be different in case of other mods. The latter has to be +1 higher than the former.
144115188075855892 (point 1) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
360287970189640185 (point 1) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the first companion in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640205 (point 1) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of the troop after the last companion in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
144115188075856070 (point 1), 1 & 2 instances; point 4), line 1, 7 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of talk_context variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856124 (point 4), line 1) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_mt_mode variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856143 (point 4), line 1, 2 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of current_town in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
792633534417207299 with the number you got for: 792633534417207295 + sequence № of mst_village_center section in mission_templates.txt, counting the 1st "mst" as #1
792633534417207313 with the number you got for: 792633534417207295 + sequence № of mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally section in mission_templates.txt, counting the 1st "mst" as #1
792633534417207298 with the number you got for: 792633534417207295 + sequence № of mst_town_center section in mission_templates.txt, counting the 1st "mst" as #1

Tweak 16 m)

To turn your wife into a companion - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak allows you to take up your wife into your party. The option about joining will be available right after the wedding. You can level her up (view her skills), manage her equipment and put her in a combat group, but you won’t have access to other companion dialogs. The option to reconsider her outfit and hat will be also gone once becoming a companion, since you can change her equipment directly now. While travelling on the world map, you will still have full access to all her spouse (manage household, organize feasts, etc.) and minister options. In case you lose your wife from your party as a result of a defeat, you can get her back at your capital or primary walled fief.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add these 2 entries to the very end of the file, as a new line each:

wife_join
wife_leave


Look at the serial number of the lines you added and subtract 1 from them. Keep those numbers in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Now open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 5 (4152 -> 4157). Then find the line starting with dlga_spouse_talk:close_window and add these 4 lines to before it, as a new line each:

dlga_spouse_talk:wife_join 69631 583  4 1506 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 1 31 2 1224979098644774912 2 2147483758 1 144115188075855892 Let's_go_on_some_adventures_together!  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_spouse_talk:wife_leave 69631 583  4 1506 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 1 31 2 1224979098644774912 2 110 1 144115188075855892 You_can_return_home,_thank_you_for_keeping_me_company.  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_wife_join:close_window 4095 1874  0 Sure!_It's_driving_me_crazy_that_I_have_to_stare_at_these_walls_all_the_time,_I_could_really_use_some_fresh_air.  6  2 1203 1 144115188075855892 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_wife_leave:close_window 4095 1875  0 Well,_that_was_fun._I_wouldn't_mind_more_adventures_with_you!_Should_you_ever_need_me_again_by_your_side_-_I'll_be_ready.  6  2 1210 1 144115188075855892 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 NO_VOICEOVER


In case of other mods or if you added something else to dialog_states.txt due to different tweaks, check if the highlighted numbers in each line match the values calculated in point 1). Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 3) with the number you got for wife_join in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
1875 (line 2 & 4) with the number you got for wife_leave in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

3) Then find this line:

dlga_member_talk:member_question 69631 15  0 I'd_like_to_ask_you_something.  182  0 NO_VOICEOVER


Increase the operation counter at the beginning of its code block (the number after the first double space) by 1 (0 -> 1). In case of other mods, simply find the line that starts with dlga_member_talk:member_question. The operation counter might be different. Right after it, add this piece of code, separated by 1 gap from each side:

2147484188 3 360287970189639680 30 144115188075855892


After the line in question, add this in form of a new line:

dlga_member_talk:spouse_pretalk 69631 15  1 540 3 360287970189639680 30 144115188075855892 I'd_like_to_ask_you_something.  869  0 NO_VOICEOVER


4) Next, find the line that starts with dlga_member_talk:member_separate and by the same method as shown in the previous point, locate its first operation counter. Increase it by 1 (1 -> 2) and add this piece of code right before We_need_to_separate_for_a_while, separated by 1 gap from each side:

2147484188 3 360287970189639680 30 144115188075855892


5) Then find the line that starts with dlga_spouse_talk:spouse_organize_feast and by the same method as in the previous points, locate its operation counter. Increase it by 1 (3 -> 4) and add this piece of code right after it, separated by 1 gap from each side:

132 1 144115188075856280


6) Now find this piece:

dlga_spouse_talk:wife_outfit 69631 583  3 1506


And replace it with this:

dlga_spouse_talk:wife_outfit 69631 583  4 2147483758 1 144115188075855892 1506


As always, watch for the gaps! This line is not present in other mods, so skip this step if that's the case.

7) Also, find this piece:

dlga_spouse_talk:hat_issue 69631 583  5 1506


Replace it with this:

dlga_spouse_talk:hat_issue 69631 583  6 2147483758 1 144115188075855892 1506


This line is likewise not present in other mods, so skip this step too in that case.

8) Next, find the line that starts with dlga_member_chat:member_lady_1 and by the same method as shown in point 3), locate its operation counter. Increase it by 1 (1 -> 2) and add this piece of code right before {playername},_when_do_you_think_we_can_reach_our_destination?, separated by 1 gap from each side:

2147484188 3 360287970189639680 30 144115188075855892


9) Then, find the line that starts with dlga_member_chat:member_talk and by the same method as shown in point 3), locate its first operation counter. Increase it by 4 (4 -> 8) and add this piece of code right before Yes,_{s5}? (could be just Yes? in case of some mods), separated by 1 gap from each side:

4 0 540 3 360287970189639680 30 144115188075855892 2320 2 5 216172782113783989 3 0


10) Now find the line that starts with dlga_start:spouse_talk. By the same method as shown in point 3), locate and increase its operation counter by 1 (2 -> 3), then find this piece within the same line:

540 3 144115188075855892 2 6


Replace it with this:

1506 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 33 3 1224979098644774912 1 3


Watch for the gaps!

11) To remove the weekly wage of your wife (you shouldn’t pay for spending time with your spouse, right?), open scripts.txt, find the game_get_troop_wage script, increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 4 (62 -> 66), then find this piece near the end of it:

2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774914


Replace it with this:

4 0 540 3 360287970189639680 30 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774914


Watch for the gaps!

12) Lastly, in case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to find them or have a correct replacement. So, replace:

583 (point 2), line 1 & 2) with the number you got for spouse_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
6 (point 2), line 3 & 4) with the number you got for close_window in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
15 (point 3) with the number you got for member_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
869 (point 3) with the number you got for spouse_pretalk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 (point 2), 6 instances; point 3), 2 instances; point 4); point 8); point 9); point 10), 2 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075855935 (point 2), line 3 & 4) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_leave_encounter variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856280 (point 5) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
216172782113783989 (point 9) with the number you get for: 216172782113783805 + № of str_husband from strings.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 n)

To be able to hire unique spawn leaders as companions when taken prisoner - credits to Countyboar

These companions won't be like any other:

They are never removed from your party on a lost battle
The dialogues for them are that of regular troops (you can only check their skills, every other kind of interaction is disabled)
They don't join your party if you're at a full capacity
You can no longer fight their armies on the map when becoming your companions. Mostly for immersion, because otherwise there could be two specimen of the hero unit existing at the same time: one in your party, and another one in his/her own army.

Furthermore, the Noldor lords' presence preventing the capture of other unique spawn leaders gets disabled in this tweak, since Aeldarian or Ithilrandir being in your party would also count as if they were on the battlefield with their own armies.

Files:

dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following entry to the end of the file as a new line:

prisoner_chat_join


Look at the serial number of the line you added and subtract 1 from it. Keep that number in mind. Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Open conversation.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 3 (4152 -> 4155), find the line that starts with dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:close_window.1 and add the following 3 lines after it, as a new line each:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_join 69631 1659  0 How_about_you_join_my_company?_  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_prisoner_chat_join:close_window 4095 1874  2 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 0 I've_seen_your_band_of_misfits,_you_can_barely_feed_them_all!__Clear_out_some_of_your_soldiers,_then_I'll_give_your_offer_more_thought.__(You_are_at_a_full_party_capacity)  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_prisoner_chat_join:close_window 4095 1874  2 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 I_suppose_I_don't_really_have_a_choice,_do_I?__Very_well,_I'll_fight_for_you.  6  5 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1610 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1 2 936748722493063763 144115188075855892 2322 2 6 144115188075855892 1106 2 1585267068834415056 16776960 NO_VOICEOVER 


3) Do this step ONLY if you haven't applied the tweak To add a potential Noldor husband to Elacrai! Otherwise skip this step. Find the line starting with dlga_member_chat:member_talk and increase the operation counter at the beginning of its code block by 1 (4 -> 5):

dlga_member_chat:member_talk 4095 13  4


Right after 2200 1 144115188075855892 1507 1 144115188075855892 in the same line, add the following piece, separated by 1 gap from each side:

2147483681 3 144115188075855892 360287970189639980 360287970189639999


4) Next we add the code responsible for disabling unique spawn leaders from being taken from your party after a defeat. To do that, open scripts.txt, and find this piece of code under the script called party_remove_all_companions:

67 21 1 1224979098644774912 1650 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 7 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1652 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 1653 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 4 0 1507 1 1224979098644774915 2147483681 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640310 360287970189640315


And replace it with this:

68 21 1 1224979098644774912 1650 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 7 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1652 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 1653 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 4 0 1507 1 1224979098644774915 2147483681 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640310 360287970189640315 2147483681 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189639980 360287970189639999


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains to the left and right of the replacement code!

5) Then, we allow the capturing unique spawn leaders in fights where Noldor lords are involved too. For that, replace everything in the body of the script called encounter_calculate_fit with this:

83 1 2 936748722493063355 648518346341351424 1 1 936748722493063503 1 2 936748722493063355 648518346341351441 2133 2 144115188075857021 72057594037927936 1617 1 648518346341351440 4 0 32 2 144115188075856188 0 132 1 144115188075856188 1662 2 144115188075856188 648518346341351440 3 0 1617 1 648518346341351439 4 0 132 1 144115188075856187 1662 2 144115188075856187 648518346341351439 3 0 1 2 936748722493063355 648518346341351439 2133 2 144115188075857022 72057594037927936 2133 2 72057594037927947 144115188075857022 2133 2 72057594037927946 144115188075857021 4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075857278 -100 4 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 1650 2 1224979098644774914 648518346341351441 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 1224979098644774914 1652 3 1224979098644774916 648518346341351441 1224979098644774915 1073741857 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639980 360287970189639999 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640030 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640007 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639992 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639993 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 1650 2 1224979098644774914 648518346341351440 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 1224979098644774914 1652 3 1224979098644774916 648518346341351440 1224979098644774915 1073741857 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639980 360287970189639999 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640030 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640007 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639992 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639993 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 0 1650 2 1224979098644774914 648518346341351439 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 1224979098644774914 1652 3 1224979098644774916 648518346341351439 1224979098644774915 1073741857 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639980 360287970189639999 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640030 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640007 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639992 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189639993 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 1 31 2 1224979098644774918 1 2133 2 144115188075857278 -100 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 1 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 2133 2 144115188075857278 -100 3 0 3 0 


6) Lastly, check if the highlighted 1874 in each line from point 2) matches with the value calculated in point 1). It is only needed to check if you added something else to dialog_states.txt due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace 1874 (line 1, 2 & 3) with the number you got for prisoner_chat_join in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 o)

To make all companions contribute their prisoner management skill to the total prisoner limit - credits to Leonion

This tweak can likely be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak has the potential to make the life of a prisoner/slave hunter easier, and it will also make the Prisoner Management skill actually useful on companions! If you use this tweak, your PM skill will stack additively with that of your companions before it gets multiplied by 10.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

2122 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774914


2) And replace everything before it (from the beginning of the line) with this:

13 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 1650 2 1224979098644774916 648518346341351424 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774916 1652 3 1224979098644774918 648518346341351424 1224979098644774917 4 0 1507 1 1224979098644774918 2170 3 1224979098644774919 1369094286720630786 1224979098644774918 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774919 3 0 3 0


3) Watch for the gaps (including the one at the beginning of the script)! The number after the piece from point 1) (10 in case of PoP, 5 in case of Native) is the multiplier for your party's prisoner limit per every point of PM. If you find it too big under these new conditions, you may want to decrease it.

4) Optionally, you can also use the following code instead of the previous one, which will make knocked out companions unable to contribute to the prisoner limit until they get healed up:

14 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 1650 2 1224979098644774916 648518346341351424 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774916 1652 3 1224979098644774918 648518346341351424 1224979098644774917 4 0 1507 1 1224979098644774918 2147485156 1 1224979098644774918 2170 3 1224979098644774919 1369094286720630786 1224979098644774918 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774919 3 0 3 0


In case of other mods, you might have to adjust the operation counters (13 or 14). As a reminder, the structure of the code after an operation counter is always as follows: operation_ID - number of operands - operands. Rinse and repeat. The amount of operation IDs found is the amount of operations performed, thus your counter number. Last but not least, make sure that 1369094286720630786 (here and in point 2) corresponds to 1369094286720630784 + № of Prisoner Management skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 16 p)

To make the equipment of medium- and high-tier companions great again, and lock their inventories up until certain levels

This tweak requires a new game to take effect!

Companions that cost 3000 denars or more to hire are the ones that get their equipment upgraded, and in return their inventories locked. The level-lock has 4 stages: lvl 15, 20, 25 and 30, marked between brackets in the list down below. Who gets which stage depends on the hiring cost and the quality of items the companion has. Even though they may not look the best that way, having open helmets is essential, so that you can see the faces of companions at the beginning, in order that conversations won't start being awkward.

List of changes and equipment:

Expand

Donavan [15]

Riding: 3 -> 4
Barclay Noble Sword
Great Lance
Arquebus
Heater Shield - Twin Screaming Eagles on Black Field
Barclay Pot Helmet
Cuir Bouilli
Mail Boots
Mail Mittens
War Horse

Ediz [15]

Level: 9 -> 10
Athletics: 2 -> 1
Power Throw: 2 -> 1
Riding: 3 -> 4
Shield: 0 -> 2
1h weapons: 140 -> 150
Throwing: 150 -> 140
Singalian Noble Sabre
Embossed Round Shield
Short Composite Bow
Bodkin Arrows
Jatu Cavalry Helmet
Singalian Black Studded Leather
Splinted Greaves
Dark Leather Gloves
Leather Draped Horse

Diev [20]

1h weapons: 220 -> 200
2h weapons: 200 -> 220
Ravenstern Great Sword
Long Composite Bow
Ranger Arrows
Ranger Arrows
Kierguard Helm
Ravenstern Kierguard Plate
Polished Steel Boots
Hourglass Gauntlets

Sir Rayne [20]

Silvered Longsword
Order of the Falcon Kite Shield
Long Blue Knight Lance
Silvermist Helm with Mail
Falcon Plate
Silver & Gold Greaves
Silver Gauntlets
Falcon Steed

Frederick [25]

Zweihander
Royal Hounskull Bascinet - Open
Forlorn Hope Heavy Suit of Plate
Empire Shynbaulds
Mettenheim Steel Mittens

Sigismund [25]

Pendor Great Sword
Siege Crossbow
Siege Bolts
Siege Bolts
Open Unicorn Helm
Ebony Platemail
Black Greaves
Ebony Gauntlets

Sir Alistair [25]

Ebony Noble Sword
Order of Eventide Kite Shield
Long Dark Knight Lance
Black Helm with Feathers
Eventide Plate Harness
Ebony Greaves
Black Steel Gauntlets
Black Leather Draped Warhorse

Sir Jocelyn [25]

Ebony Knight Sword
Heater Shield - Black & White
Siege Crossbow
Siege Bolts
Dark Knight Helm
Pendor Ornate Plate Armor
Empire Shynbaulds
Supreme Steel Gauntlets
Ironbred Charger

Boadice [30]

Rune Bastard Sword
Long Blue Knight Lance
Ancient Engraved Shield
Jarids
Veccavian Open Helm with Tail
Unicorn Plate
Silver & Gold Greaves
Supreme Silver Gauntlets
Unicorn Steed

Sir Roland [30]

Ebony Arming Sword
Long Dawn Knight Lance
Heater Shield - Order of the Dawn
Silver Helmet - Open
Silver Ornate Plated Armor with Cape
Silver & Gold Greaves
Supreme Silver Gauntlets
White Draped Warhorse

Lethaldiran [30]

Noldor Runesword
Noldor Noble Shield
Noldor Composite Bow
Noldor Arrows
Noldor Captain Helm with Hood
Noldor Trimmed Ranger Garb with Cape
Noldor Enchanted Boots
Noldor Leather Ornate Gloves
Noldor Grey Warhorse

Screenshots:

Boadice, Sigismund Sinclair and Sir Roland: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/751466683649597275/85AC4011B90C48A9CC4326F843DAEC8286ED3DF1/
Donavan, Ediz, Sir Rayne and Frederick of Mettenheim: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/751466683649597465/BCE0C977D36873E9554B60FBD1F58AB02A92EBAF/
Sir Jocelyn, Lethaldiran, Sir Alistair and Diev: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/751466683649597700/6AE72B983EEB150A3EEE7AE22686F65F84F70E07/

Files:

troops.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open troops.txt and find these lines:

trp_npc_lethaldiran Lethaldiran Lethaldiran 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  777 0 681 0 231 0 728 0 1121 0 1150 0 1432 0 1208 0 1083 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 16 19 42
 460 440 440 460 350 420 0
274 3145728 1342177282 26453 295792 0 
  18253619207 3014439439853794010 1852066 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_jocelyn Sir_Jocelyn Jocelyn 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1374 0 1103 0 696 0 746 0 1452 0 560 0 159 0 1262 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 22 15 19 32
 425 410 380 350 410 350 0
64 1344274437 80 26487 421888 0 
  45819663761 4941810163143523165 1979115 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_alistair Sir_Alistair Alistair 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  844 0 701 0 784 0 1262 0 1365 0 422 0 180 0 1545 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 21 16 21 32
 410 410 430 350 350 350 0
96 1665146948 80 26487 487424 0 
  6443529287 3399604443866814234 1950771 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_rayne Sir_Rayne Rayne 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  820 0 755 0 696 0 1544 0 173 0 1376 0 579 0 1256 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  18 15 12 12 15
 190 180 200 160 160 160 0
48 1073741824 64 17525 212992 0 
  27783630863 4207828974730849054 1914578 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_julia Julia Julia 0 268435473 0 0 1 0 0
  393 0 743 0 1131 0 1151 0 1392 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  12 15 9 12 8
 125 90 115 125 130 100 0
32 268435744 32 8483 139328 0 
  8892710919 3826771821454505170 1947355 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_frederick Frederick_of_Mettenheim Frederick 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  839 0 716 0 784 0 636 0 1341 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  22 18 12 15 15
 300 300 100 100 150 150 0
48 1342177284 80 24675 417792 0 
  52395257988 7466003182728066923 1910491 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_ediz Ediz Ediz 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  920 0 576 0 1112 0 1140 0 1265 0 701 0 746 0 1414 0 172 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  14 18 14 12 9
 140 100 100 190 50 150 0
0 0 1342177280 16419 148048 0 
  436527114 1521240612054311178 1881307 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_sara Sara_the_Fox Sara 0 268435474 0 0 1 0 0
  162 0 740 0 1190 0 604 0 1159 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  7 18 16 16 6
 125 100 100 80 110 120 0
1342177298 3145728 67108864 12341 77824 0 
  1060870 3939 0 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_donavan Donavan Donavan 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  841 0 1454 0 755 0 1255 0 540 0 1136 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  13 13 18 12 14
 200 160 140 120 160 130 250
32 1342177281 96 21251 77824 0 
  32161969170 7515513248595051061 1948144 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_diev Diev_Wodenssen Diev 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1111 0 744 0 1142 0 1430 0 595 0 1251 0 831 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  21 18 12 9 20
 220 200 200 230 150 150 0
0 607129600 1 16466 213088 0 
  19311116809 3808803150356350684 2045593 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_alyssa Alyssa Alyssa 0 268435474 0 0 1 0 0
  834 0 350 0 741 0 1460 0 1401 0 1166 0 695 0 162 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  13 11 15 12 9
 100 100 150 100 100 200 0
32 0 0 12613 1536 0 
  705695751 3851 0 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_roland Sir_Roland Roland 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  853 0 696 0 747 0 559 0 165 0 1375 0 1199 0 1526 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 21 15 21 32
 400 370 400 360 360 370 0
96 1665151056 0 22359 487680 0 
  31139594756 1931083030126508716 1947236 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_kaverra Kaverra Kaverra 0 268435473 0 0 1 0 0
  1412 0 1174 0 296 0 747 0 695 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  16 15 14 13 12
 100 120 140 120 130 150 0
2 302120992 67108897 8514 345088 0 
  17465106436 1987605067940873942 2017893 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_sigismund Sigismund_Sinclair Sigismund 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  925 0 718 0 784 0 421 0 1358 0 1133 0 1153 0 1154 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 15 12 9 20
 280 330 200 110 300 200 0
0 54525952 48 21827 421888 0 
  21458870280 3953154587674609378 1947371 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_boadice Boadice Boadice 0 268435473 0 0 1 0 0
  826 0 185 0 624 0 717 0 748 0 1505 0 1201 0 1167 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  22 16 15 22 24
 320 240 325 240 240 330 0
96 1110458448 64 25942 418864 0 
  21474836482 3898840498456835292 1881819 0 0 0 0 0 


2) Replace them with these:

trp_npc_lethaldiran Lethaldiran Lethaldiran 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1209 0 1433 0 1121 0 1150 0 777 0 1084 0 681 0 777 0 728 0 231 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 21 16 19 42
 460 440 440 460 350 420 0
274 3145728 1342177282 26453 295792 0 
  18253619207 3014439439853794010 1852066 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_jocelyn Sir_Jocelyn Jocelyn 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1205 0 1516 0 1134 0 1155 0 982 0 448 0 781 0 725 0 221 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 22 15 19 32
 425 410 380 350 410 350 0
64 1344274437 80 26487 421888 0 
  45819663761 4941810163143523165 1979115 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_alistair Sir_Alistair Alistair 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1204 0 1545 0 1368 0 968 0 619 0 780 0 708 0 209 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 21 16 21 32
 410 410 430 350 350 350 0
96 1665146948 80 26487 487424 0 
  6443529287 3399604443866814234 1950771 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_rayne Sir_Rayne Rayne 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1198 0 1544 0 1371 0 896 0 602 0 783 0 717 0 217 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  18 15 12 12 15
 190 180 200 160 160 160 0
48 1073741824 64 17525 212992 0 
  27783630863 4207828974730849054 1914578 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_julia Julia Julia 0 268435473 0 0 1 0 0
  393 0 743 0 1131 0 1151 0 1392 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  12 15 9 12 8
 125 90 115 125 130 100 0
32 268435744 32 8483 139328 0 
  8892710919 3826771821454505170 1947355 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_frederick Frederick_of_Mettenheim Frederick 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1360 0 932 0 494 0 781 0 712 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  22 18 12 15 15
 300 300 100 100 150 150 0
48 1342177284 80 24675 417792 0 
  52395257988 7466003182728066923 1910491 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_ediz Ediz Ediz 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1268 0 1440 0 1113 0 1142 0 920 0 656 0 750 0 701 0 197 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  14 18 14 12 10
 150 100 100 190 50 140 0
0 0 1342177280 16916 147792 0 
  436527114 1521240612054311178 1881307 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_sara Sara_the_Fox Sara 0 268435474 0 0 1 0 0
  162 0 740 0 1190 0 604 0 1159 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  7 18 16 16 6
 125 100 100 80 110 120 0
1342177298 3145728 67108864 12341 77824 0 
  1060870 3939 0 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_donavan Donavan Donavan 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1202 0 1367 0 1136 0 1522 0 844 0 416 0 755 0 696 0 183 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  13 13 18 12 14
 200 160 140 120 160 130 250
32 1342177281 96 21252 77824 0 
  32161969170 7515513248595051061 1948144 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_diev Diev_Wodenssen Diev 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1358 0 1114 0 1148 0 1148 0 893 0 598 0 770 0 710 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  21 18 12 9 20
 200 220 200 230 150 150 0
0 607129600 1 16466 213088 0 
  19311116809 3808803150356350684 2045593 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_alyssa Alyssa Alyssa 0 268435474 0 0 1 0 0
  834 0 350 0 741 0 1460 0 1401 0 1166 0 695 0 162 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  13 11 15 12 9
 100 100 150 100 100 200 0
32 0 0 12613 1536 0 
  705695751 3851 0 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_roland Sir_Roland Roland 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1206 0 1370 0 1526 0 949 0 488 0 783 0 726 0 204 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 21 15 21 32
 400 370 400 360 360 370 0
96 1665151056 0 22359 487680 0 
  31139594756 1931083030126508716 1947236 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_kaverra Kaverra Kaverra 0 268435473 0 0 1 0 0
  1412 0 1174 0 296 0 747 0 695 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  16 15 14 13 12
 100 120 140 120 130 150 0
2 302120992 67108897 8514 345088 0 
  17465106436 1987605067940873942 2017893 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_sigismund Sigismund_Sinclair Sigismund 0 268435472 0 0 1 0 0
  1359 0 1134 0 1155 0 1155 0 969 0 492 0 773 0 724 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  28 15 12 9 20
 280 330 200 110 300 200 0
0 54525952 48 21827 421888 0 
  21458870280 3953154587674609378 1947371 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_npc_boadice Boadice Boadice 0 268435473 0 0 1 0 0
  1347 0 1371 0 1552 0 1167 0 876 0 629 0 783 0 726 0 218 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  22 16 15 22 24
 320 240 325 240 240 330 0
96 1110458448 64 25942 418864 0 
  21474836482 3898840498456835292 1881819 0 0 0 0 0 



3) If you don't want to lock the inventories of the above companions up until the designated levels, then stop here. Otherwise open conversation.txt and find the following lines:

dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640190 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 I_can't_allow_humans_to_handle_my_Noldor_equipment,_I'm_sorry.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.1 4095 174  0 Very_well,_it's_all_here...  175  1 2051 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


4) Replace them with these:

dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640190 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 I_can't_allow_humans_to_handle_my_Noldor_equipment,_I'm_sorry.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.1 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640191 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 I_can't_allow_you_to_handle_my_equipment_yet,_I'm_sorry_Captain.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.2 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640192 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 Captain,_I_can't_allow_you_to_handle_my_equipment.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.3 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640193 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 20 My_good_{reg63?Sir:Madam},_I'm_terribly_sorry_but_I_can't_allow_you_to_access_the_items_I_have_just_yet.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_20]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.4 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640195 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 Mein_Kapitan,_you_are_not_a_skilled_warrior_yet_to_see_my_inventory.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.5 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640196 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 15 I'm_sorry_Captain,_but_you_are_in_no_position_to_see_my_equipment.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_15]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.6 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640198 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 15 I_apologize_Commander,_but_your_request_cannot_be_granted.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_15]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.7 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640199 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 20 You_can't_have_a_look_at_my_inventory_yet,_Commander.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_20]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.8 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640201 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 {reg63?Sir:Madam},_you_haven't_proven_your_worth_yet_to_access_my_inventory.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.9 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640203 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 My_{reg63?lord:lady},_you_shall_not_be_allowed_to_handle_my_belongings_until_I_say_so.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.10 4095 174  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640204 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 Commander,_you_are_not_worthy_for_that_just_yet.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  175  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_trade:do_member_trade.11 4095 174  0 Very_well,_it's_all_here...  175  1 2051 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


5) Then, find this line:

dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640190 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 There_is_nothing_to_speak_about,_human.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


6) And replace it with these:

dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640190 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 There_is_nothing_to_speak_about,_human.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.1 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640191 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 Let's_talk_about_something_else.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.2 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640192 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 I'd_rather_not.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.3 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640193 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 20 I'm_sorry,_but_not_yet.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_20]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.4 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640195 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 Let's_change_the_subject.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.5 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640196 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 15 I_can't_allow_you_that.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_15]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.6 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640198 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 15 Well,_I_wouldn't_like_to.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_15]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.7 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640199 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 20 I_don't_think_so.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_20]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.8 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640201 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 Leave_me_alone.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.9 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640203 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 25 Don't_bother_me_with_that.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_25]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_member_automanage_report:member_talk.10 4095 183  3 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640204 2171 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 30 I_digress.^^^^^[unlocks_at_level_30]  15  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


7) Lastly, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 20 (4152 -> 4172)

Tweak 16 q)

To adapt Custom Commander to PoP - credits to Rubik (author), Vetrogor (adaptor) and thermocline (sponsor and tester)

Allows to choose a companion as the commander (the character you control) before battles. This way you can also ensure their training and become able to roleplay with other characters in your party.

Screenshots:

https://i.imgur.com/A63tsJA.jpg
https://i.imgur.com/XKILNAU.jpeg

Files:

mission_templates.txt
scripts.txt
meshes.txt
strings.txt
presentations.txt
menus.txt

1) Open mission_templates.txt and under mst_lead_charge, find the trigger that has 1716 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 in it, and replace it entirely (the whole line) with this:

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  16 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1 2 936748722493063554 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774913 5000 1718 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 2171 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 2107 2 1224979098644774915 70 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 2136 3 1224979098644774916 1000 3000 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 1716 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774917 0 1671 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 2121 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 70 2107 2 1224979098644774919 30 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774919 505 3 1224979098644774912 16 1224979098644774913 


2) Next, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - siege offense continuation in castle hall (21 -> 22)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - siege offense continuation in courtyard (21 -> 22)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)

3) Right after the counters of mst_lead_charge and mst_village_attack_bandits, add the following trigger in form of a new line:

0.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  12 2147483679 2 144115188075856149 360287970189639680 2175 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 500 3 360287970189640822 0 1224979098644774912 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 1700 1 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1770 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1710 2 49 1224979098644774913 720 2 49 -100 1970 1 49 1972 1 360287970189639680 1771 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774914  0 


4) Then, after the counters of mst_village_raid, mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle, mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center, mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally, mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry and mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder add the following trigger in form of a new line:

0.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  17 2147483679 2 144115188075856149 360287970189639680 2175 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 500 3 360287970189640822 0 1224979098644774912 2147485156 1 360287970189639680 1700 1 1224979098644774913 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1770 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1710 2 49 1224979098644774913 720 2 49 -100 1970 1 49 1541 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189639680 8 1542 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 8 1543 3 360287970189639680 8 -1 1972 1 360287970189639680 1771 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774914 1543 3 360287970189639680 8 1224979098644774915 1544 3 360287970189639680 8 1224979098644774916  0 


5) Now, open scripts.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (754 -> 755), and add this script to the end of the file, as two new lines:

get_num_heroes_of_party -1
 12 21 1 1224979098644774912 22 1 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 1650 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774915 1652 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 1507 1 1224979098644774917 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 1508 1 1224979098644774917 2106 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774914 


Be sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

6) Next, find the script called agent_reassign_team and replace its body entirely with this:

32 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 1700 1 1224979098644774913 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774913 0 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1706 1 1224979098644774912 1716 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774914 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 648518346341351424 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 2204 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 1718 2 72057594037927975 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 144115188075856294 33 3 144115188075856294 432345564227567630 432345564227567636 542 3 144115188075856294 8 360287970189639680 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 5 0 1652 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 0 2147483681 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640185 360287970189640315 2147483681 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639980 360287970189639999 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189640007 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189640030 2190 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774916 432345564227567630 30 2 1224979098644774918 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 1 1770 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774913 2105 2 1224979098644774919 2 1771 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 3 0 


Beware, there should be one space at the beginning of the code block!

7) Open meshes.txt, increase the counter in the 1st line of the file 1 (808 -> 809), then add the following entry to the end of the file, as a new line:

mesh_inventory_equipment_panel 0 inventory_equipment_panel 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 1.000000 1.000000 1.000000


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

8) Then, open strings.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 27 (5056 -> 5083) and add the following 27 entries to the end of the file, as a new line each:

str_select_companion Please_reselect_a_companion^as_the_commander_for_the_coming_battle.^^Current_commander:_{s0}.
str_arms Arms
str_outfit Outfit
str_stats Level:_{reg2}^HP:_{reg1}/{reg0}
str_attribute_str Strength
str_attribute_agi Agility
str_attribute_int Intelligence
str_attribute_cha Charisma
str_attributes_num {s1}({reg0}/63)
str_ironflesh Ironflesh
str_power_strike Power_Strike
str_power_throw Power_Throw
str_power_draw Power_Draw
str_shield Shield
str_athletics Athletics
str_riding Riding
str_horse_archery Horse_Archery
str_skills_num {s1}({reg2}/{reg3})
str_weapon_proficiencies Weapon_Proficiencies
str_one_handed_weapon one_handed_weapon_
str_two_handed_weapon two_handed_weapon_
str_polearm polearm_
str_archery archery_
str_crossbow crossbow_
str_throwing throwing_
str_firearms firearms_
str_wp_num {s1}({reg0}/699)


Once again, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file

9) Next, open presentations.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (61 -> 62), and add the following codeblock to the end of the file as 4 new lines, separated by 2 empty lines from the last entry:

prsnt_change_commander 0 0 3
-60.000000  354 2133 2 1224979098644774912 216172782113788864 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1441151880758559528 902 1 999999 2124 1 1000 911 2 72057594037927937 1441151880758558963 729 2 1 0 730 2 1 0 926 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 630 730 2 1 650 2322 2 0 144115188075856149 910 3 144115188075856905 1224979098644774912 4112 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 926 2 144115188075856905 1 940 2 144115188075856915 1585267068834414737 729 2 1 900 730 2 1 25 926 2 144115188075856915 1 2319 1 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 400 2133 2 1224979098644774915 30 910 3 144115188075856905 0 8192 729 2 1 790 730 2 1 150 926 2 144115188075856905 1 729 2 1 170 730 2 1 1224979098644774914 929 2 144115188075856905 1 945 1 144115188075856905 1 3 936748722493063922 648518346341351424 1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 72057594037927936 2122 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 2111 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 2106 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 2133 2 1224979098644774918 0 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 1650 2 1224979098644774920 648518346341351424 6 3 1224979098644774921 0 1224979098644774920 1652 3 1224979098644774922 648518346341351424 1224979098644774921 1507 1 1224979098644774922 2147485156 1 1224979098644774922 2322 2 1 1224979098644774922 729 2 1 1224979098644774918 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 2106 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 912 2 72057594037927936 1585267068834416201 926 2 72057594037927936 1 729 2 1 800 730 2 1 800 925 2 72057594037927936 1 500 3 360287970189640740 1224979098644774919 72057594037927936 500 3 360287970189640741 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774922 2105 2 1224979098644774919 1 3 0 945 1 -1 2122 3 1224979098644774923 144115188075856149 2 2105 2 1224979098644774923 1 939 4 72057594037927936 -1 1729382256910270467 1224979098644774923 729 2 1 675 730 2 1 900 925 2 72057594037927936 1 729 2 1 -11 730 2 1 10 926 2 72057594037927936 1 911 2 72057594037927937 1224979098644774913 729 2 1 960 730 2 1 960 925 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 10 730 2 1 15 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2133 2 1224979098644774924 219 2133 2 1224979098644774925 683 2133 2 1224979098644774923 144115188075856149 2133 2 1224979098644774926 360287970189640743 910 3 72057594037927937 1224979098644774912 16 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 2120 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 42 2120 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774925 -3 729 2 1 1224979098644774918 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 926 2 72057594037927937 1 910 3 72057594037927937 1224979098644774912 16 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 2120 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 -98 2120 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774925 -3 729 2 1 1224979098644774918 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 926 2 72057594037927937 1 910 3 72057594037927937 1585267068834416531 16 2120 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 -140 2120 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774925 -280 729 2 1 1224979098644774918 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2133 2 144115188075856645 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774925 6 3 1224979098644774927 0 9 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774927 4 2106 2 1224979098644774918 96 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774925 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774927 7 2106 2 1224979098644774918 84 2121 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774925 85 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774927 8 2106 2 1224979098644774917 108 3 0 2106 2 1224979098644774917 85 1541 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774927 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774928 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774929 1441151880758558973 911 2 72057594037927937 1224979098644774929 729 2 1 820 730 2 1 820 925 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 1224979098644774918 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 926 2 72057594037927937 1 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774928 -1 944 2 72057594037927937 1224979098644774928 729 2 1 800 730 2 1 800 925 2 72057594037927937 1 2120 3 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774918 40 2120 3 1224979098644774931 1224979098644774917 40 729 2 1 1224979098644774930 730 2 1 1224979098644774931 926 2 72057594037927937 1 500 3 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774927 72057594037927937 5 0 500 3 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774927 -1 3 0 3 0 2322 2 1 144115188075856149 910 3 72057594037927936 1 65552 729 2 1 169 730 2 1 237 926 2 72057594037927936 1 921 2 72057594037927936 16777215 1 2 936748722493063893 144115188075856149 2175 3 72057594037927937 144115188075856149 1 2171 2 72057594037927938 144115188075856149 2320 2 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 910 3 72057594037927936 1585267068834416201 2048 729 2 1 182 730 2 1 145 926 2 72057594037927936 1 729 2 1 800 730 2 1 800 925 2 72057594037927936 1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 360 2133 2 1224979098644774917 550 910 3 72057594037927937 1585267068834414828 4 2120 3 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774918 10 729 2 1 1224979098644774932 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 2120 3 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774912 4 6 3 1224979098644774934 0 4 2120 3 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774934 2320 2 1 1224979098644774935 2172 3 1224979098644774936 144115188075856149 1224979098644774934 2110 2 1224979098644774936 63 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774936 2120 3 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774918 10 2120 3 1224979098644774937 1224979098644774917 10 910 3 72057594037927937 1224979098644774933 4 729 2 1 1224979098644774932 730 2 1 1224979098644774937 926 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 600 730 2 1 600 925 2 72057594037927937 1 2120 3 1224979098644774938 1224979098644774918 10 2120 3 1224979098644774939 1224979098644774917 0 911 2 72057594037927937 1441151880758558967 729 2 1 1224979098644774938 730 2 1 1224979098644774939 926 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 6300 730 2 1 400 925 2 72057594037927937 1 921 2 72057594037927937 0 922 2 72057594037927937 34 911 2 72057594037927937 1441151880758558967 729 2 1 1224979098644774938 730 2 1 1224979098644774939 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2122 3 1224979098644774940 1224979098644774936 100 729 2 1 1224979098644774940 730 2 1 400 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774936 0 925 2 72057594037927937 1 5 0 729 2 2 1 730 2 2 400 925 2 72057594037927937 2 936 3 72057594037927937 200 1 3 0 921 2 72057594037927937 51 922 2 72057594037927937 128 2105 2 1224979098644774918 220 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 800 2133 2 1224979098644774918 360 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 3 0 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774912 5 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 910 3 72057594037927937 1585267068834414832 4 2120 3 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774918 10 729 2 1 1224979098644774932 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 2133 2 1224979098644774941 0 2120 3 1224979098644774942 1224979098644774912 8 7 3 1224979098644774943 23 37 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 36 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 35 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 34 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 33 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 26 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 25 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 24 31 2 1224979098644774943 23 2120 3 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774941 2320 2 1 1224979098644774935 2170 3 1224979098644774944 1224979098644774943 144115188075856149 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 34 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 35 1073741855 2 1224979098644774943 33 31 2 1224979098644774943 36 2133 2 1224979098644774945 10 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774945 10 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927938 1224979098644774944 2133 2 72057594037927939 1224979098644774945 2120 3 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774918 10 2120 3 1224979098644774937 1224979098644774917 10 910 3 72057594037927937 1224979098644774942 4 729 2 1 1224979098644774932 730 2 1 1224979098644774937 926 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 600 730 2 1 600 925 2 72057594037927937 1 2120 3 1224979098644774938 1224979098644774918 10 2120 3 1224979098644774939 1224979098644774917 0 911 2 72057594037927937 1441151880758558967 729 2 1 1224979098644774938 730 2 1 1224979098644774939 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2122 3 1224979098644774940 1224979098644774945 600 729 2 1 1224979098644774940 730 2 1 400 925 2 72057594037927937 1 921 2 72057594037927937 0 922 2 72057594037927937 34 911 2 72057594037927937 1441151880758558967 729 2 1 1224979098644774938 730 2 1 1224979098644774939 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2122 3 1224979098644774940 1224979098644774944 600 729 2 1 1224979098644774940 730 2 1 400 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774944 0 925 2 72057594037927937 1 5 0 729 2 2 1 730 2 2 400 925 2 72057594037927937 2 936 3 72057594037927937 200 1 3 0 921 2 72057594037927937 13056 922 2 72057594037927937 128 2105 2 1224979098644774918 220 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774918 800 2133 2 1224979098644774918 360 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774941 1 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774912 9 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 910 3 72057594037927937 1224979098644774912 4 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 2120 3 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774918 10 729 2 1 1224979098644774932 730 2 1 1224979098644774917 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 2120 3 1224979098644774946 1224979098644774912 7 6 3 1224979098644774947 0 7 2120 3 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774947 2320 2 1 1224979098644774935 2176 3 1224979098644774948 144115188075856149 1224979098644774947 2110 2 1224979098644774948 699 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774948 2120 3 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774918 10 2120 3 1224979098644774937 1224979098644774917 10 910 3 72057594037927937 1224979098644774946 4 729 2 1 1224979098644774932 730 2 1 1224979098644774937 926 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 600 730 2 1 600 925 2 72057594037927937 1 2120 3 1224979098644774938 1224979098644774918 10 2120 3 1224979098644774939 1224979098644774917 0 911 2 72057594037927937 1441151880758558967 729 2 1 1224979098644774938 730 2 1 1224979098644774939 926 2 72057594037927937 1 729 2 1 17475 730 2 1 400 925 2 72057594037927937 1 921 2 72057594037927937 0 922 2 72057594037927937 34 911 2 72057594037927937 1441151880758558967 729 2 1 1224979098644774938 730 2 1 1224979098644774939 926 2 72057594037927937 1 2122 3 1224979098644774940 1224979098644774948 25 729 2 1 1224979098644774940 730 2 1 400 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774948 0 925 2 72057594037927937 1 5 0 729 2 2 1 730 2 2 400 925 2 72057594037927937 2 936 3 72057594037927937 200 1 3 0 921 2 72057594037927937 3342336 922 2 72057594037927937 128 2106 2 1224979098644774917 30 3 0 
-63.000000  26 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2072 1 1224979098644774913 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 9 540 3 360287970189640743 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 946 2 0 1224979098644774912 1541 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856149 1224979098644774914 1542 3 1224979098644774916 144115188075856149 1224979098644774914 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 972 4 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 0 100 5 0 970 3 1224979098644774915 0 100 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856645 1224979098644774914 3 0 5 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 9 540 3 360287970189640743 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 144115188075856645 1224979098644774914 971 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 
-62.000000  13 2071 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856915 902 1 0 3 0 1 3 936748722493063922 648518346341351424 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 72057594037927936 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 540 3 360287970189640740 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 520 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640741 1224979098644774914 2133 2 144115188075856149 1224979098644774915 900 1 1513209474796486717 3 0 


Make sure that there remains 3 empty lines at the very end of the file!

10) Then, open menus.txt, and in the body of menu_battle_debrief, find the operation counter:

Kill_count:{s12} none 157


Increase it by 15 (157 -> 172)

11) Right after that increased operation counter, add this piece of code, separated by 1 gap from each side:

4 0 2147483679 2 144115188075856149 360287970189639680 2175 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 1685 3 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 9 2107 2 1224979098644774913 5 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640822 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 2121 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 2107 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 2108 2 1224979098644774915 100 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1560 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774915 3 0 2133 2 144115188075856149 360287970189639680 47 1 360287970189639680 


12) Now find menu_besiegers_camp_with_allies and the submenu counter at the end of its body. Increase it by 1 (4 -> 5), then find mno_join_siege_with_allies and replace it with this:

mno_change_commander_besiegers_camp_with_allies  5 1 3 936748722493063922 648518346341351424 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774912 1 2322 2 7 144115188075856149 47 1 144115188075856149  Change_commander({s7}).  1 900 1 1513209474796486717  .  mno_join_siege_with_allies


13) Find menu_simple_encounter and the submenu counter at the end of its body. Increase it by 1 (5 -> 6), then find mno_encounter_attack and replace it with this:

mno_change_commander_simple_encounter  5 1 3 936748722493063922 648518346341351424 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774912 1 2322 2 7 144115188075856149 47 1 144115188075856149  Change_commander.({s7})  1 900 1 1513209474796486717  .  mno_encounter_attack


Beware, there needs to be a space at the beginning!

14) Find menu_join_battle and the submenu counter at the end of its body. Increase it by 1 (3 -> 4), then find mno_join_attack and replace it with this:

mno_change_commander_join_battle  5 1 3 936748722493063922 648518346341351424 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774912 1 2322 2 7 144115188075856149 47 1 144115188075856149  Change_commander.({s7})  1 900 1 1513209474796486717  .  mno_join_attack


Beware, there needs to be a space at the beginning!

15) Find menu_castle_besiege and the submenu counter at the end of its body. Increase it by 1 (9 -> 10), then in the next line, find mno_castle_lead_attack and replace it with this:

mno_change_commander_castle_besiege  8 30 2 144115188075856226 1 2270 1 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856230 1 3 936748722493063922 648518346341351424 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774913 1 2322 2 7 144115188075856149 47 1 144115188075856149  Change_commander.(Current_commander:_{s7})  1 900 1 1513209474796486717  .  mno_castle_lead_attack


16) Find menu_siege_started_defender and the submenu counter at the end of its body. Increase it by 1 (2 -> 3), then find mno_siege_defender_join_battle and replace it with this:

mno_change_commander_siege_defender  5 1 3 936748722493063922 648518346341351424 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 32 2 1224979098644774912 1 2322 2 7 144115188075856149 47 1 144115188075856149  Change_commander.(Current_commander:_{s7})  1 900 1 1513209474796486717  .  mno_siege_defender_join_battle


Beware, there needs to be a space at the beginning!

17) Lastly, here are the highlighted numbers from above to be adjusted - according to the following formulas - in case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in the given file:

216172782113788864 (point 9) with the number you got for: 216172782113783805 + № of str_select_companion from strings.txt, added in point 8) (line number in Notepad++)
1441151880758559528 (point 9) with the number you got for: 1441151880758558720 + № of mesh_inventory_equipment_panel from meshes.txt, added in point 7) (line-2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063922 (point 9), line 2 & 4; point 12); 13); 14); 15); 16) with the number you got for: 936748722493063168 + № of get_num_heroes_of_party from scripts.txt, added in point 5) (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
1513209474796486717 (point 9), line 4; point 12); 13); 14); 15); 16) with the number you got for: 1513209474796486655 + sequence № of prsnt_change_commander from presentations.txt, counting the 1st "prsnt_" as #1

17. Troops and NPCs (26)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
17 a) To change the food consumption rate of troops
17 b) To speed up the training process of troops in garrisons and lords' parties
17 c) To add the ability to train your party in training fields
17 d) To be able to upgrade your troops in training fields
17 e) To change some factors about recruiting prisoners
17 f) To be able to hire soldiers from the prisoners of lords and their garrison
17 g) To disable prisoner troops escaping from prison over time
17 h) Recruitment overhaul for rescued Noldor prisoners
17 i) Overhaul of the system about hiring rescued prisoners
17 j) To edit the cost of noble troops
17 k) To change which troops are available for hire in taverns and how much does it cost
17 l) To add mercenary wages to a new range of troops
17 m) To allow accessing and changing the inventories of troops from in-game
17 n) To add a button leading to the belonging troop tree of each troop's party screen
17 o) To make more troops mix-gendered
17 p) To make troops grab another shield from their equipment when the original gets broken
17 q) Various little tweaks for troops (connect upgrade paths / be more viable / get unused and more fitting items)
17 r) Troop Testing Script
17 s) To add damage reduction for NPCs (and also for the player with the alternative adjustment)
17 t) To change the thresholds for becoming wounded
17 u) To change the amount of Noldor troops you get for a Qualis Gem from Quigfen and Arandur
17 v) To edit the chances, kind, and amount of troops you can get from slave traders
17 w) To add a Mettenheim NPC to the tavern of Valonbray who will offer Mettenheim troops and arms weekly
17 x) To get the location of all bandit lairs from Brother Randalf
17 y) To add 2 eligible-to-wed Noldor ladies to Elacrai
17 z) To add a potential Noldor husband to Elacrai


Tweak 17 a)

To change the food consumption rate of troops - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find a trigger starting with 14.000000 that also has the following piece in it:

31 2 144115188075856290 0 1650 2

The 14 is the # of hours after which your party eats each time

2) Increase it to make your party's food consumption slower. In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to find it. So, replace:

144115188075856290 with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_is_captive variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 17 b)

To speed up the training process of troops in garrisons and lords' parties - credits to Dalion and VonDegurechaff

Point 1) & 2) of this tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find and observe these pieces:

5 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774916 30

35 2107 2 1224979098644774915 3 2108 2 1224979098644774915 2

(2 times)
25 2108 2 1224979098644774915 2

(2 times)
3000 2133 2 1224979098644774916 30

50 2105 2 1224979098644774915 250

(this piece can't be found in other mods)

2) The base formulas are as follows:

For lords' parties, the gained xp is ((trainer_skill+5)*1000)/divisor
For garrisons controlled by the AI, the gained xp is just 3000/divisor
For garrisons belonging to the player, the gained xp is (trainer_skill*50)+250, where the steward's Trainer skill is the one to be taken into account, not the player's. Also, the training option has to be made available first via the Training Grounds fief improvement.

The aforementioned divisor depends on campaign AI difficulty, which is 3/2 on "good" campaign AI, 1 (no division) on "average" AI and 2 on "poor" AI. Note that there are 2 instances of each of these values above!

The training for both lords' troops and garrisons is not guaranteed when the trigger checks. Each check has only a chance of applying the above calculations, which depends on campaign AI once again, and it is 25 on "good" campaign AI, 30 on "average" AI and 35 on "poor" AI. There are 2 instances of these values in the above trigger.

If these values suit you as they are, and you just want to speed up everything, then all you need to do is to decrease the 48.000000 period time, found at the beginning of the trigger, expressed in in-game hours (currently the training happens every 2 days). In case of other mods, the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774915) might be different, but the structure is likely the same, and so are the highlighted values.

3) Alternatively, you can rework the training formula of garrisons. To do that, increase the 71 at the beginning of the trigger above by 16 (71 -> 87), then replace this piece:

31 2 1224979098644774921 360287970189639680 521 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774920 293 2170 3 1224979098644774924 17 1224979098644774923 521 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774920 274 541 3 1224979098644774920 349 0 2112 3 1224979098644774925 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774925 1 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774924 50 2105 2 1224979098644774915 250 2107 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774925 1673 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774915 0


With this:

31 2 1224979098644774921 360287970189639680 541 3 1224979098644774920 349 0 1650 2 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 6 3 1224979098644774927 0 1224979098644774926 1652 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774927 2171 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774928 2147483680 2 1224979098644774929 40 1561 3 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774928 0 1561 3 1224979098644774931 1224979098644774928 1 2105 2 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774931 30 2 1224979098644774930 0 1653 3 1224979098644774931 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774927 2107 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774931 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774929 3 0 521 3 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774920 293 2170 3 1224979098644774924 17 1224979098644774923 2111 2 1224979098644774924 6 2121 3 1224979098644774926 8 1224979098644774924 2111 2 1224979098644774926 1 521 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774920 274 2112 3 1224979098644774925 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774925 1 2108 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774926 2107 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774925 1673 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774915 0


The sum of gained experience is

Y / (8-X) * Z


Where:

Y - The sum of the levels of all soldiers in the garrison, not counting the fully trained troops and those above level 40
X - The Trainer skill of the seneschal (up to 6 by default)
Z - Whether or not there is a Training Grounds fief improvement built (2 if yes, 1 if no)

Under optimal conditions, the garrison will receive around 20,000 experience. If you think that this number is too large / small, then feel free to change the above values! Regarding the divisor (8-X), there is a fail check included which doesn't allow it to be lesser than 1.

Tweak 17 c)

To add the ability to train your party in training fields - credits to Dalion

This tweak is mutually exclusive with the next one!
This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak is especially useful for leveling up troops that usually take a long while to get promoted (e.g. Maiden Adventurer -> Heroine Adventurer). That is, if the costs are worth it for you. If not, then you can change these values as shown below. Note that upon this special training, your whole party gets an x amount of shared experience, meaning that the more troops you have in your party, the less experience each individual will get. You and any companions in your party count too. Also, keep in mind that troops in batches train faster, as any surplus experience from each unit inside a stack gets passed to the rest of the units inside the same stack (and then the remaining experience gets passed to other troop stacks). And last but not least, there's a hard limit of a single troop being unable to gain more than 30000 experience points at a time. Meaning that you won't be able to train much those higher level companions like Lethaldiran or the 3 Sirs, and that a good part of the shared experience may vanish if there are not enough troops in your party to "consume" it.

Files:

quick_strings.txt
menus.txt

1) Open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter at the top by 1 (3139 -> 3140), and to the end of the file, add the following as a new line:

qstr_Not_enough_money. Not_enough_money.


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file

2) Next, open menus.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (319 -> 320), and find this piece of code under the section called mno_camp_trainer:

144115188075856283 2048 0  .  mno_leave  0  Leave.


3) Replace it with this:

144115188075856283 2048 0  .  mno_camp_train_troops 0 Train_your_party. 1 2060 1 864691128455135551  .  mno_leave  0  Leave.


Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap to the left and 2 gaps to the right of the inserted code.

4) Just above, at the end of the section called menu_training_ground, find this piece:

2040 0 3 0


After it, there is a submenu counter. Increase it by 1 (7 -> 8 in case of PoP and Native)

5) Then, add these two lines to the end of the file:

menu_camp_train_troops_variants 0 The_trainer_offers_you_3_kind_of_training_programs._Which_one_do_you_choose?^^^(Keep_in_mind_that_there_is_a_maximum_limit_-_30,000_xp_per_troop_for_each_training_session) none 0 4 
 mno_camp_train_troops_variant1 0 __Basic_training_program._(10,000_xp_for_5,000_denars) 9 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 5000 2040 0 1674 2 648518346341351424 10000 1529 2 360287970189639680 5000 5 0 1106 2 1585267068834417731 14395649 3 0 . mno_camp_train_troops_variant2 0 __Advanced_training_program._(50,000_xp_for_12,000_denars) 9 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 12000 2040 0 1674 2 648518346341351424 50000 1529 2 360287970189639680 12000 5 0 1106 2 1585267068834417731 14395649 3 0 . mno_camp_train_troops_variant3 0 __Expert_training_program._(150,000_xp_for_25,000_denars) 9 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 25000 2040 0 1674 2 648518346341351424 150000 1529 2 360287970189639680 25000 5 0 1106 2 1585267068834417731 14395649 3 0 . mno_go_back_dot  0  Go_back.  1 2060 1 864691128455135424 .


In case you'd like to change the costs and the earned experience points: red numbers show how much money will be taken away, and blue numbers indicate how much experience your party will receive. Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

6) Lastly, here are the highlighted numbers from above to be adjusted - according to the following formulas -, in case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in the given file:

864691128455135551 (menus.txt, in point 3): 864691128455135232 + № of the menu from point 5 (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 (quick_strings.txt, in point 5): 1585267068834414592 + № of the quick_string from point 1 (line-2 in Notepad++)

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the below numbers as follows, in order to find the given pieces and have a correct replacement. So, replace:

144115188075856283 (point 2) & 3) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_training_ground_melee_training_scene variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
864691128455135424 (point 5) with the number you get for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_training_ground from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 17 d)

To be able to upgrade your troops in training fields - credits to Dalion

This tweak is mutually exclusive with the previous one!
This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This will be a long tweak, be warned. As such, it is recommended to apply this among the first ones to lessen the amount of adjustments needed!

Unlike the previous one, this will guarantee the upgrade in tier upon training, but only for 50 troops at a time (you can set how many units from each stack). Furthermore, you can train to any tier within the respective troop trees in one go, only the cost will vary. And you can't train companions with this tweak. Also, keep in mind that the most optimal use for this tweak is for long/risky troop training (like Maiden Adventurers into Heroine Adventurers), as you can surely train recruits up to a medium level rather fast. Training fields will garrison your troops during the process of training, until you decide to take them back (only the selected ones or all of them). Once a training program is issued, the trainer will get a cooldown of 24 hours until he can train again.

The default cost formula is: (30 * level_difference) * troop_type_modifier * total_units. The troop_type_modifier is the following, depending on which kind of troop it is:

Infantry: 0.5
Archers / crossbowmen / skirmishers: 0.75
Cavalry: 1
Horse archers: 1.75 (archers + cavalry)

Some exampler screenshots: https://imgur.com/a/vTPRyA0

Files:

(troops.txt)
variables.txt
quick_strings.txt
meshes.txt
menus.txt
presentations.txt
scripts.txt
mission_templates.txt
simple_triggers.txt
dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt
(parties.txt)

1) Optional: download the modified troops.txt from the "Make troop wages be influenced by faction relations and culture" tweak if you haven't done so already, and overwrite the one you have in your module with it! (https://www.dropbox.com/s/adogko1ra28w2l0/troops.txt?dl=0) The reason is to make the in-game text presentations fully benefit from the ability to take the color of the respective troop's faction.

2) Open variables.txt and add the following 23 entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

tt_day_limit
tt_base_cost
tt_cur_party
tt_initial_stack
tt_cur_stack
tt_upg_1
tt_upg_2
tt_scene
tt_max_amount
tt_trainer
tt_cost_for_1
tt_continue
tt_slider
tt_slider_confirm
tt_slider_plus
tt_slider_minus
tt_slider_bt
tt_slider_ut
tt_slider_v
tt_slider_c
tt_slider_bt_name
tt_slider_ut_name
tt_cooldown


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

3) Open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter at the top by 14 (3139 -> 3153) and add the following entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

qstr_This_stack_can_be_up This_stack_can_be_upgraded_to_{s3}
qstr__or_{s5} _or_{s5}
qstr_Should_I_proceed_or_ Should_I_proceed_or_stop_at_this_tier?
qstr_This_stack_has_no_fu This_stack_has_no_further_upgrades
qstr_1.75_since_it_s_both 1.75_since_it's_both_cavalry_and_archers
qstr_0.75_since_it_s_arch 0.75_since_it's_archers
qstr_1_since_it_s_cavalry 1_since_it's_cavalry
qstr_0.5_since_it_s_infan 0.5_since_it's_infantry
qstr_For_this_tier:^Level For_this_tier:^Level_difference_is_{reg4};^Multiplier_is_{s9};^Cost_for_1_unit_is_{reg3}_denars.
qstr_You_leave_{reg2}_{s2 You_leave_{reg2}_{s2}_with_trainer,_for_him_to_promote_them_to_{s3}.
qstr_1 1
qstr_How_many_troops_to_p How_many_troops_to_promote?
qstr_Confirm Confirm
qstr_{reg30} {reg30}


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

4) Open meshes.txt, increase the counter at the top by 5 (808 -> 813) and add the following 5 entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

mesh_tick_button_r 0 cb_ui_comp_arrow_r_d 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 1.000000 1.000000 1.000000
mesh_tick_button_r_down 0 cb_ui_comp_arrow_r_p 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 1.000000 1.000000 1.000000
mesh_tick_button_l 0 cb_ui_comp_arrow_l_d 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 1.000000 1.000000 1.000000
mesh_tick_button_l_down 0 cb_ui_comp_arrow_l_p 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 1.000000 1.000000 1.000000
mesh_new_window 0 message_window 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 1.000000 1.000000 1.000000


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

5) Open menus.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line by 2 (319 -> 321) and add the following 2 entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

menu_trainer_ph 0 You_shouldn't_be_reading_this... none 2 2060 1 864691128455135246 900 1 1513209474796486717 1
 mno_back  0  Go_back.  1 2055 0  . 
menu_trainer_back_ph 0 You_shouldn't_be_reading_this... none 6 2060 1 864691128455135495 1261 1 144115188075857327 1262 0 1911 1 792633534417207317 1910 2 144115188075857327 5 2049 1 144115188075857329 1
 mno_back  0  Go_back.  1 2055 0  . 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

6) Open presentations.txt, increase counter in the 2nd line by 1 (61 -> 62) and add the following 3 entries to the end of the file as a new line each, separated by 2 empty lines from the last entry:

prsnt_tt_how_many 0 812 2
-60.000000  73 2124 1 1000 2320 2 1 1585267068834417741 2320 2 2 1585267068834417742 2320 2 3 1585267068834417743 2322 2 4 144115188075857323 2322 2 5 144115188075857324 2173 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857323 2173 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075857324 1277 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 1277 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 2122 3 1224979098644774916 144115188075857323 2 2122 3 1224979098644774917 144115188075857324 2 914 4 144115188075857332 1 144115188075857328 16 940 2 144115188075857333 3 913 3 144115188075857334 1441151880758559528 1441151880758559529 913 3 144115188075857335 1441151880758559530 1441151880758559531 939 4 144115188075857336 -1 1729382256910270467 1224979098644774916 939 4 144115188075857337 -1 1729382256910270467 1224979098644774917 910 3 144115188075857338 1 65552 910 3 144115188075857339 2 65552 910 3 144115188075857340 4 69648 910 3 144115188075857341 5 69648 921 2 144115188075857340 1224979098644774914 921 2 144115188075857341 1224979098644774915 921 2 144115188075857338 11557706 921 2 144115188075857339 11557706 729 2 1 10 730 2 1 280 926 2 144115188075857336 1 729 2 1 160 730 2 1 250 926 2 144115188075857340 1 729 2 1 670 730 2 1 280 926 2 144115188075857337 1 729 2 1 825 730 2 1 250 926 2 144115188075857341 1 729 2 1 430 730 2 1 400 926 2 144115188075857332 1 729 2 1 500 730 2 1 270 926 2 144115188075857338 1 729 2 1 560 730 2 1 144 926 2 144115188075857334 1 729 2 1 387 730 2 1 144 926 2 144115188075857335 1 729 2 1 490 730 2 1 140 926 2 144115188075857333 1 729 2 1 500 730 2 1 580 926 2 144115188075857339 1 701 1 2 729 2 2 300 730 2 2 300 925 2 144115188075857334 2 925 2 144115188075857335 2 729 2 2 1500 730 2 2 1500 925 2 144115188075857332 2 729 2 2 2000 730 2 2 2000 925 2 144115188075857339 2 729 2 2 3000 730 2 2 3000 925 2 144115188075857338 2 927 2 144115188075857332 1 2133 2 72057594037927966 1 902 1 999999 
-62.000000  29 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2072 1 1224979098644774913 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857332 927 2 144115188075857332 1224979098644774913 2133 2 72057594037927966 1224979098644774913 2320 2 1 1585267068834417744 920 2 144115188075857338 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857334 2147483678 2 72057594037927966 144115188075857328 2105 2 72057594037927966 1 927 2 144115188075857332 72057594037927966 2320 2 1 1585267068834417744 920 2 144115188075857338 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857335 32 2 72057594037927966 1 2106 2 72057594037927966 1 927 2 144115188075857332 72057594037927966 2320 2 1 1585267068834417744 920 2 144115188075857338 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857333 2133 2 72057594037927938 72057594037927966 2133 2 144115188075857331 1 902 1 0 2060 1 864691128455135552 3 0 


Make sure that there remains 3 empty lines at the very end of the file!

7) Open scripts.txt, find the script called game_get_join_cost and increase the operation counter at the beginning of its body by 5 (18 -> 23). Then find this piece of code at the end of the script:

2075 1 72057594037927936


And replace it with this:

4 0 31 2 72057594037927996 315 2075 1 0 5 0 2075 1 72057594037927936 3 0 


8) Open mission_templates.txt and find the section called mst_training_ground_trainer_talk. Find this empty trigger below:

0.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  0  0 


Replace it with this:

0.000000 0.000000 100000000.000000  0  2 2133 2 144115188075857320 50 2133 2 144115188075857342 24 


The 50 is the limit of troops you can train before the cooldown starts, and the 24 is the amount of hours the cooldown will last for. In case of other mods, if you can't find the showed empty trigger in the body of mst_training_ground_trainer_talk, then increase its trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 and add the above trigger right under the previously increased counter, as a new line.

9) Open simple_triggers.txt and replace any empty trigger (where there is only a 0 after the trigger), like so:

-6.000000  0 


With this:

1.000000  12 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640151 360287970189640156 2147484188 3 1224979098644774912 746 0 520 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 746 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774913 1 2106 2 1224979098644774913 1 500 3 1224979098644774912 746 1224979098644774913 5 0 500 3 1224979098644774912 746 0 500 3 1224979098644774912 747 0 3 0 3 0 


10) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following 19 entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

trainer_intro_4c
trainer_tt_take_back
trainer_tt_begin
trainer_tt_decide
trainer_tt_confirm
trainer_tt_choose
trainer_tt_info
trainer_tt_stack
trainer_tt_final
trainer_tt_how_many
trainer_tt_agree
trainer_tt_agree_player
trainer_tt_next_stack
trainer_tt_next_stack_player
trainer_tt_pay
trainer_tt_next_time
trainer_tt_ending
trainer_tt_ending_player
trainer_tt_end


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind and make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

11) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 39 (4152 -> 4191). Then add the following entries right after the line starting with dlga_trainer_intro_3:trainer_intro_4b, as a new line each:

dlga_trainer_talk:trainer_intro_4c 69631 1361  2 520 3 72057594037927944 144115188075855892 747 2133 2 72057594037927943 144115188075857320 I_want_you_to_train_my_troops._({reg8}/{reg7})  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_talk:trainer_tt_take_back 69631 1361  3 1601 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856280 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 0 540 3 144115188075855892 748 0 I_want_to_take_back_the_rest_of_my_troops.  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_talk:trainer_tt_begin 69631 1361  3 1601 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856280 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 0 2147484188 3 144115188075855892 748 0 I_want_to_take_my_troops_back.  1876  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_intro_3:trainer_intro_4c 69631 1356  2 1601 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856280 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 Could_you_train_my_troops_instead?  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_intro_4c:trainer_talk 4095 1874  4 520 3 72057594037927944 144115188075855892 747 30 2 72057594037927944 144115188075857320 520 3 72057594037927945 144115188075855892 746 2147484188 3 144115188075855892 746 0 I_need_{reg9}_more_hours_to_rest_from_our_previous_training._Come_back_around_that_time_and_I'll_see_what_I_can_do.  1361  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_intro_4c:trainer_tt_decide 4095 1874  4 520 3 72057594037927944 144115188075855892 747 2133 2 72057594037927942 144115188075857342 2133 2 72057594037927943 144115188075857320 2147483678 2 72057594037927944 144115188075857320 Sure,_it_doesn't_really_matter_for_me_who_to_train._It's_what_this_place_is_for_after_all,_is_it_not?_However,_the_basic_theory_and_friendly_sparring_practice_is_one_thing,_but_military_training_of_recruits_into_soldiers_is_quite_another._After_each_{reg7}_trained_soldiers_I_will_take_{reg6}_hours_of_break._And_it_won't_come_for_free,_moreover,_it_may_cost_you_a_lot.^^^Haven't_you_changed_your_mind_yet?  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_decide:trainer_intro_4a 69631 1877  0 I_have_indeed._May_I_ask_another_question?  1357  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_decide:trainer_tt_confirm 69631 1877  0 No_way,_I'm_ready_to_take_a_chance.  1878  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_confirm:trainer_tt_choose 4095 1878  2 2133 2 144115188075857321 30 2133 2 72057594037927937 144115188075857321 So_be_it._The_price_depends_on_what_troops_you_want_to_train_and_how_many._To_be_precise,_it_depends_on_level_difference_between_initial_unit_and_final_one,_and_also_on_final_troop's_type.^^I_charge_{reg1}_denars_for_each_level_of_difference_and_then_apply_multipliers:_cost_of_infantry_is_multiplied_by_0.5,_archers_by_0.75,_cavalry_by_1_and_for_horse_archers_the_two_multipliers_are_combined.^^It_is_not_necessary_to_train_them_to_the_cap,_you_can_stop_on_any_tier_you_want.^^Whom_will_you_choose?  1879  16 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640151 2133 2 144115188075857322 648518346341351609 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640152 2133 2 144115188075857322 648518346341351610 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640153 2133 2 144115188075857322 648518346341351611 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640154 2133 2 144115188075857322 648518346341351612 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640155 2133 2 144115188075857322 648518346341351613 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_choose:trainer_tt_info 90111 1879  14 50 1 1224979098644774912 1650 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2105 2 1224979098644774912 0 1652 3 1224979098644774914 648518346341351424 1224979098644774912 2147485155 1 1224979098644774914 1653 3 1224979098644774915 648518346341351424 1224979098644774912 2133 2 72057594037927938 1224979098644774915 1561 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 0 1561 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 1 3221226979 1 1224979098644774916 2147485155 1 1224979098644774917 2319 1 2 2322 2 2 1224979098644774914 {s2}_({reg2})  1880  34 50 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 0 1652 3 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 1224979098644774912 2133 2 144115188075857323 1224979098644774913 2133 2 72057594037927939 0 1561 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 0 1561 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 1 2319 1 2 2319 1 3 2319 1 4 2319 1 5 2319 1 6 2319 1 7 2319 1 8 2133 2 144115188075857324 1224979098644774913 2322 2 2 144115188075857324 4 0 2147485155 1 1224979098644774914 2322 2 3 1224979098644774914 2320 2 4 1585267068834417731 2133 2 72057594037927946 1 2133 2 144115188075857325 1224979098644774914 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927946 0 3 0 4 0 2147485155 1 1224979098644774915 2322 2 5 1224979098644774915 2320 2 6 1585267068834417732 2133 2 72057594037927947 1 2133 2 144115188075857326 1224979098644774915 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927947 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_choose:close_window 69631 1879  0  Never_mind.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_info:trainer_tt_stack 4095 1880  0 So,_{s2}?_{s4}{s6}.^^{s8}^^The_final_cost_will_be_determined_by_the_total_amount_of_troops_from_this_stack_that_you_want_to_promote.^^{s7}  1881  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_stack:trainer_tt_info 69631 1881  1 31 2 72057594037927946 1 Proceed_to_{s3}.  1880  65 1561 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075857325 0 1561 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075857325 1 2319 1 2 2319 1 3 2319 1 4 2319 1 5 2319 1 6 2319 1 7 2319 1 8 2319 1 9 2133 2 144115188075857324 144115188075857325 2322 2 2 144115188075857324 4 0 2147485155 1 1224979098644774912 2322 2 3 1224979098644774912 2320 2 4 1585267068834417731 2133 2 72057594037927946 1 2133 2 144115188075857325 1224979098644774912 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927946 0 3 0 4 0 2147485155 1 1224979098644774913 2322 2 5 1224979098644774913 2320 2 6 1585267068834417732 2133 2 72057594037927947 1 2133 2 144115188075857326 1224979098644774913 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927947 0 3 0 4 0 3221226979 1 1224979098644774912 2147485155 1 1224979098644774913 2147483679 2 144115188075857324 144115188075857323 2320 2 7 1585267068834417733 5 0 2320 2 4 1585267068834417734 3 0 2171 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075857324 2171 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075857323 2121 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 2122 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 144115188075857321 4 0 153 1 144115188075857324 154 1 144115188075857324 2122 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 75 2123 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 100 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774919 2320 2 9 1585267068834417735 5 0 153 1 144115188075857324 2107 2 1224979098644774917 75 2108 2 1224979098644774917 100 2320 2 9 1585267068834417736 5 0 154 1 144115188075857324 2108 2 1224979098644774917 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417737 5 0 2108 2 1224979098644774917 2 2320 2 9 1585267068834417738 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927939 1224979098644774917 2133 2 72057594037927940 1224979098644774916 2320 2 8 1585267068834417739 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_stack:trainer_tt_info.1 69631 1881  1 31 2 72057594037927947 1 Proceed_to_{s5}.  1880  63 1561 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075857326 0 1561 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075857326 1 2319 1 2 2319 1 3 2319 1 4 2319 1 5 2319 1 6 2319 1 7 2133 2 144115188075857324 144115188075857326 2322 2 2 144115188075857324 4 0 2147485155 1 1224979098644774912 2322 2 3 1224979098644774912 2320 2 4 1585267068834417731 2133 2 72057594037927946 1 2133 2 144115188075857325 1224979098644774912 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927946 0 3 0 4 0 2147485155 1 1224979098644774913 2322 2 5 1224979098644774913 2320 2 6 1585267068834417732 2133 2 72057594037927947 1 2133 2 144115188075857326 1224979098644774913 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927947 0 3 0 4 0 3221226979 1 1224979098644774912 2147485155 1 1224979098644774913 2147483679 2 144115188075857324 144115188075857323 2320 2 7 1585267068834417733 5 0 2320 2 4 1585267068834417734 3 0 2171 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075857324 2171 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075857323 2121 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 2122 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 144115188075857321 4 0 153 1 144115188075857324 154 1 144115188075857324 2122 3 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 75 2123 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 100 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774919 2320 2 9 1585267068834417735 5 0 153 1 144115188075857324 2107 2 1224979098644774917 75 2108 2 1224979098644774917 100 2320 2 9 1585267068834417736 5 0 154 1 144115188075857324 2108 2 1224979098644774917 1 2320 2 9 1585267068834417737 5 0 2108 2 1224979098644774917 2 2320 2 9 1585267068834417738 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927939 1224979098644774917 2133 2 72057594037927940 1224979098644774916 2320 2 8 1585267068834417739 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_stack:trainer_tt_final 69631 1881  1 2147483679 2 144115188075857324 144115188075857323 Let's_stop_on_this_tier.  1882  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_stack:trainer_tt_confirm 69631 1881  0 Let's_choose_someone_else.  1878  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_stack:close_window 69631 1881  0 Never_mind.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_final:trainer_tt_how_many 4095 1882  5 1630 3 72057594037927938 648518346341351424 144115188075857323 2323 2 2 144115188075857323 2323 2 3 144115188075857324 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 747 2121 3 72057594037927944 144115188075857320 1224979098644774912 As_you_wish._How_many_of_{s2}_you_want_me_to_train_to_{s3}?_Keep_in_mind_I_can_only_train_up_to_{reg8}_more_troops_for_today,_and_you_have_{reg2}_of_them.^^^^^^---WARNING:_you_won't_be_able_to_take_troops_back_until_you_pay_for_the_training!---  1883  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_how_many:trainer_tt_agree 69631 1883  3 2123 3 1224979098644774912 72057594037927938 1 2111 2 1224979098644774912 1 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927944 All_of_them.  1884  1 2133 2 72057594037927940 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_how_many:trainer_tt_agree.1 69631 1883  3 2123 3 1224979098644774912 72057594037927938 2 2111 2 1224979098644774912 1 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927944 Half_of_them.  1884  1 2133 2 72057594037927940 2 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_how_many:trainer_tt_agree.2 69631 1883  3 2123 3 1224979098644774912 72057594037927938 4 2111 2 1224979098644774912 1 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927944 Only_a_quarter_of_them.  1884  1 2133 2 72057594037927940 4 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_how_many:close_window 69631 1883  0 Choose_the_exact_number...  6  11 2211 1 144115188075857327 4 0 32 2 72057594037927938 72057594037927944 2133 2 144115188075857328 72057594037927944 5 0 2133 2 144115188075857328 72057594037927938 3 0 2133 2 144115188075857329 144115188075855892 2133 2 144115188075857330 72057594037927939 2060 1 864691128455135551 1907 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_how_many:trainer_tt_confirm 69631 1883  0 Let's_choose_someone_else.  1878  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_agree:trainer_tt_agree_player 4095 1884  5 2108 2 72057594037927938 72057594037927940 2111 2 72057594037927938 1 2324 3 2 144115188075857323 72057594037927938 2324 3 3 144115188075857324 72057594037927938 2122 3 72057594037927941 72057594037927939 72057594037927938 Training_of_{reg2}_{s2}_to_{s3}_will_cost_you_{reg5}_denars._Does_it_suit_you?  1885  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:trainer_tt_agree_player 4095 0  6 33 3 144115188075855892 360287970189640151 360287970189640156 31 2 144115188075857331 1 2324 3 2 144115188075857323 72057594037927938 2324 3 3 144115188075857324 72057594037927938 2133 2 72057594037927939 144115188075857330 2122 3 72057594037927941 72057594037927939 72057594037927938 Training_of_{reg2}_{s2}_to_{s3}_will_cost_you_{reg5}_denars._Does_it_suit_you?  1885  1 2133 2 144115188075857331 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_agree_player:trainer_tt_next_stack 69631 1885  0 Yes,_go_for_it.  1886  12 1615 3 648518346341351424 144115188075857323 72057594037927938 1610 3 144115188075857322 144115188075857324 72057594037927938 2324 3 2 144115188075857323 72057594037927938 2324 3 3 144115188075857324 72057594037927938 1106 2 1585267068834417740 13612167 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 747 2105 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927938 500 3 144115188075855892 747 1224979098644774912 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 748 2105 2 1224979098644774913 72057594037927941 500 3 144115188075855892 748 1224979098644774913 2133 2 72057594037927946 1224979098644774913 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_agree_player:trainer_tt_final 69631 1885  0 Hmm,_seems_too_expensive._Let's_change_the_amount.  1882  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_next_stack:trainer_tt_next_stack_player 4095 1886  2 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 747 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857320 The_total_cost_is_{reg10}_now._Would_you_like_to_choose_another_stack?  1887  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_next_stack:trainer_tt_begin 4095 1886  2 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 747 30 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075857320 The_total_cost_turned_out_to_be_{reg10}._Also_you_have_reached_the_troop_limit,_so_I_shall_begin_the_training_of_current_ones.  1876  1 500 3 144115188075855892 746 144115188075857342 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_next_stack_player:trainer_tt_confirm 69631 1887  0 Yes,_I_need_more_of_experienced_soldiers.  1878  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_next_stack_player:trainer_tt_begin 69631 1887  0 No,_I_think_it's_enough._You_can_begin.  1876  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_begin:trainer_tt_pay 4095 1876  1 520 3 72057594037927946 144115188075855892 748 Very_well,_your_troops_are_ready._You_can_take_them_back_once_you_pay_our_discussed_sum_of_{reg10}_denars._If_it_is_too_much_for_you_as_of_now,_you_can_return_to_me_later.  1888  3 501 3 144115188075857322 746 2 501 3 144115188075857322 747 1 2133 2 72057594037927956 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_pay:trainer_tt_take_back 69631 1888  2 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927946 Sure,_here's_the_money.  1875  2 1529 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927946 500 3 144115188075855892 748 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_pay:trainer_tt_next_time 69631 1888  0 I_can't_afford_it_right_now._Until_the_next_time,_I_guess.  1889  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_next_time:trainer_talk 4095 1889  0 Aye._Don't_worry,_I'll_keep_them_in_good_shape._No_matter_when_you_come_back,_they_won't_forget_a_thing_from_what_they_have_just_learned.^^Now,_how_about_some_test_of_your_combat_skills?  1361  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_take_back:trainer_tt_ending 4095 1875  0 Your_troops_await_you_outside._If_you_can't_take_all_of_them_now,_you_can_come_back_for_the_rest_later.  1890  3 2133 2 72057594037927996 315 1320 1 144115188075856280 2045 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_ending:trainer_tt_ending_player 4095 1890  0 Actually_I_should_thank_you_for_this_opportunity._It_was_good_to_work_with_soldiers_once_more._I_miss_those_times.  1891  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_ending_player:trainer_tt_end 69631 1891  0 I_will_try_to_please_you_with_such_opportunities_more_often.  1892  1 2133 2 72057594037927996 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_trainer_tt_end:trainer_talk 4095 1892  0 Glad_to_hear_that._Anyway,_I_can_still_offer_sparring_matches.^^Are_you_ready?  1361  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


You can edit the default cost formula here. As a reminder: (30 * level_difference) * troop_type_modifier * total_units. The 30 is in line 9. The troop_type_modifier is the following, depending on which kind of troop it is:

Infantry: 0.5 (divided by 2; line 13 & 14)
Archers: 0.75 (multiplied by 75, divided by 100; line 13 & 14)
Cavalry: 1 (divided by 1; line 13 & 14)
Horse archers: 1.75 (multiplied by 75, divided by 100, +1; line 13 & 14)

If you make any changes to the above multipliers, then don’t forget to change the quick_string texts accordingly in point 3). The cost per level of difference will automatically adapt itself to any changes.

12) Optional: open the Parties Editor of Morgh's Editor and untick the hide_defenders flag for the following entries to allow displaying their garrison:

p_training_ground_1
p_training_ground_2
p_training_ground_3
p_training_ground_4
p_training_ground_5

This requires a new game or a savegame editor to take effect! In case of the latter, decrease the flags field of all 5 training fields by 2097152 (2^21; 2114665 -> 17513 in case of PoP)

13) Lastly, here are the highlighted numbers from above to be adjusted - according to the following formulas -, in case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in the given file:

144115188075857320 (point 8); point 11), line 1, 5, 6 (2 instances), 18, 28, 29): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_day_limit from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857321 (point 11), line 9 (2 instances), 13, 14): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_base_cost from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857322 (point 11), line 9 (5 instances), 26, 32 (2 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_cur_party from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857323 (point 6), line 2 (3 instances); point 11), line 10, 13 (2 instances), 14 (2 instances), 15, 18 (2 instances), 24, 25, 26 (2 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_initial_stack from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857324 (point 6), line 2 (3 instances); point 11), line 10 (2 instances), 13 (8 instances), 14 (8 instances), 15, 18, 24, 25, 26 (2 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_cur_stack from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857325 (point 11), line 10, 13 (4 instances), 14): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_upg_1 from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857326 (point 11), line 10, 13, 14 (4 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_upg_2 from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857327 (point 5), line 3 (2 instances); point 11), line 22): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_scene from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857328 (point 6), line 2 & 3; point 11), line 22 (2 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_max_amount from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857329 (point 5), line 3; point 11), line 22): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_trainer from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857330 (point 11), line 22 & 25): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_cost_for_1 from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857331 (point 6), line 3; point 11), line 25 (2 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_continue from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857332 (point 6), line 2 (4 instances), 3 (4 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857333 (point 6), line 2 (2 instances), 3): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_confirm from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857334 (point 6), line 2 (3 instances), 3): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_plus from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857335 (point 6), line 2 (3 instances), 3): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_minus from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857336 (point 6), line 2 (2 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_bt from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857337 (point 6), line 2 (2 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_ut from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857338 (point 6), line 2 (4 instances), 3 (3 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_v from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857339 (point 6), line 2 (4 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_c from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857340 (point 6), line 2 (3 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_bt_name from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857341 (point 6), line 2 (3 instances): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_slider_ut_name from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857342 (point 8), point 11), line 6 & 29): 144115188075855871 + № of tt_cooldown from point 2) (variables.txt, line number in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 (point 11), line 10, 13, 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_This_stack_can_be_up from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417732 (point 11), line 10, 13, 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr__or_{s5} from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417733 (point 11), line 13 & 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_Should_I_proceed_or_ from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417734 (point 11), line 13 & 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_This_stack_has_no_fu from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417735 (point 11), line 13 & 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_1.75_since_it_s_both from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417736 (point 11), line 13 & 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_0.75_since_it_s_arch from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417737 (point 11), line 13 & 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_1_since_it_s_cavalry from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417738 (point 11), line 13 & 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_0.5_since_it_s_infan from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417739 (point 11), line 13 & 14): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_For_this_tier:^Level from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417740 (point 11), line 26): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_You_leave_{reg2}_{s2 from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417741 (point 6), line 2): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_1 from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417742 (point 6), line 2): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_How_many_troops_to_p from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417743 (point 6), line 2): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_Confirm from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417744 (point 6), line 3 (3 instances): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_{reg30} from point 3) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1441151880758559528 (point 6), line 2): 1441151880758558720 + № of mesh_tick_button_r from point 4) (meshes.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1441151880758559529 (point 6), line 2): 1441151880758558720 + № of mesh_tick_button_r_down from point 4) (meshes.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1441151880758559530 (point 6), line 2): 1441151880758558720 + № of mesh_tick_button_l from point 4) (meshes.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1441151880758559531 (point 6), line 2): 1441151880758558720 + № of mesh_tick_button_l_down from point 4) (meshes.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
864691128455135551 (point 11), line 22): 864691128455135232 + № of menu_trainer_ph from point 5) (menus.txt, menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
864691128455135552 (point 6), line 3): 864691128455135232 + № of menu_trainer_back_ph from point 5) (menus.txt, menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
1874 (point 11), line 1, 4, 5, 6) with the number you got for trainer_intro_4c from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1875 (point 11), line 2, 33, 36) with the number you got for trainer_tt_take_back from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1876 (point 11), line 3, 29, 31, 32) with the number you got for trainer_tt_begin from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1877 (point 11), line 6, 7, 8) with the number you got for trainer_tt_decide from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1878 (point 11), line 8, 9, 16, 23, 30) with the number you got for trainer_tt_confirm from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1879 (point 11), line 9, 10, 11) with the number you got for trainer_tt_choose from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1880 (point 11), line 10, 12, 13, 14) with the number you got for trainer_tt_info from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1881 (point 11), line 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17) with the number you got for trainer_tt_stack from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1882 (point 11), line 15, 18, 27) with the number you got for trainer_tt_final from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1883 (point 11), line 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23) with the number you got for trainer_tt_how_many from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1884 (point 11), line 19, 20, 21, 24) with the number you got for trainer_tt_agree from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1885 (point 11), line 24, 25, 26, 27) with the number you got for trainer_tt_agree_player from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1886 (point 11), line 26, 28, 29) with the number you got for trainer_tt_next_stack from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1887 (point 11), line 28, 30, 31) with the number you got for trainer_tt_next_stack_player from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1888 (point 11), line 32, 33, 34) with the number you got for trainer_tt_pay from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1889 (point 11), line 34 & 35) with the number you got for trainer_tt_next_time from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1890 (point 11), line 36 & 37) with the number you got for trainer_tt_ending from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1891 (point 11), line 37 & 38) with the number you got for trainer_tt_ending_player from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)
1892 (point 11), line 38 & 39) with the number you got for trainer_tt_ending_player from point 10) (dialog_states.txt, line-1 in Notepad++)

Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from above in order to have a correct replacement. So, replace:

864691128455135246 (point 5), line 1) with the number you got for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_auto_return from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
1513209474796486717 (point 5), line 1) with the number you got for: 1513209474796486655 + sequence № of prsnt_tt_how_many in presentations.txt, counting the 1st "prsnt_" as #1
864691128455135495 (point 5), line 3) with the number you got for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_auto_return_to_map from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
792633534417207317 (point 5), line 3) with the number you got for: 792633534417207295 + sequence № of mst_training_ground_trainer_talk in mission_templates.txt, counting the 1st "mst_" as #1
812 (point 6), line 1) with the № of mesh_new_window from point 4) (meshes.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
360287970189640151 (point 9); point 11), line 9 & 25) with the number you got for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_trainer_1 from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640156 (point 9); point 11), line 25) with the number you got for: 360287970189639680 + № of the troop after trp_trainer_5 (+1) from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
1361 (point 11), line 1, 2, 3, 5, 35, 39) with the number you got for trainer_talk in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
144115188075855892 (point 11), line 1, 2, 3, 5 (3 instances), 6, 9 (5 instances), 18, 22, 25, 26 (4 instances), 28, 29 (2 instances), 32, 33) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075856280 (point 11), line 2, 3, 4, 36) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_encountered_party variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
1356 (point 11), line 4) with the number you got for trainer_intro_3 in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
1357 (point 11), line 7) with the number you got for trainer_intro_4a in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)
648518346341351609 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 648518346341351424 + № of p_training_ground_1 from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640152 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_trainer_2 from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
648518346341351610 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 648518346341351424 + № of p_training_ground_2 from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640153 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_trainer_3 from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
648518346341351611 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 648518346341351424 + № of p_training_ground_3 from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640154 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_trainer_4 from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
648518346341351612 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 648518346341351424 + № of p_training_ground_4 from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640155 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_trainer_5 from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
648518346341351613 (point 11), line 9) with the number you got for: 648518346341351424 + № of p_training_ground_5 from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
6 (point 11), line 11, 17, 22) with the number you got for close_window in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 17 e)

To change some factors about recruiting prisoners - credits to VonDegurechaff, Dalion and TheMageLord

Point 4) and point 5) of this tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

scripts.txt
menus.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) To change the level limit for recruiting rescued prisoners, open scripts.txt and find this piece in the script called party_add_party_prisoners:

20 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 23 2 1224979098644774913 2 23 2 1224979098644774914 3 1651 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774915 1656 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 3221226979 1 1224979098644774917 31 2 144115188075855940 1 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 1073743331 1 1224979098644774917 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 40 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 3221225505


The 40 is the level limit for both the player and the AI. Change it to anything between 1 and 61. Units above that level won't be hireable from rescued prisoners. So with a value of 1, you won't be able to recruit any troops from rescued prisoners, while with a level limit of 61, you will be able to recruit everyone. Noldor Warriors are a special exception for being only lvl 36, so they have to be handled separately. If you want to remove that exeption, then decrease the 20 by 1 (20 -> 19) and delete the 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943. Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains between each code number!

2) To change the level limit separately between the player and the AI for recruiting rescued prisoners, find the same script from the previous point. Increase the 20 by 5 (20 -> 25) and replace 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 40 with this:

2133 2 1224979098644774920 40 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 2133 2 1224979098644774920 40 3 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774920


As usual, watch for gaps, so that exactly 1 remains at the start and the end of the replacement. The 40 is the level limit for the player, while the 40 is the level limit for the AI. Once again, change them to anything between 1 and 61. If you want to remove the exeption of Noldor Warriors, then delete the aforementioned 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 and decrease the operation counter at the beginning of the script (now set to 25) by 1 (25 -> 24).

3) To change the level limit for recruiting prisoners, open menus.txt and search for this piece of code:

108 2031 1 1441151880758558778 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 1651 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774917 648518346341351424 1224979098644774916 2147485155 1 1224979098644774917 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 40 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639941 4 0 1506 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774917 2147483679 2 1224979098644774919 3 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1 3 0 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 0 2060 1 864691128455135295 5 0 31 2 144115188075856176 0 2270 1 144115188075856178 2136 3 1224979098644774920 0 100 2170 3 1224979098644774921 1369094286720630791 360287970189639680 2121 3 1224979098644774922 15 1224979098644774921 2107 2 1224979098644774922 4 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774922 2133 2 144115188075856176 -7 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 1651 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774917 648518346341351424 1224979098644774916 2147485155 1 1224979098644774917 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 40 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639941 4 0 1506 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774917 2147483679 2 1224979098644774919 3 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774912 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774917 648518346341351424 1224979098644774916 2147485155 1 1224979098644774917 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 40 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639941 4 0 1506 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774917 2147483679 2 1224979098644774919 3


If you want to decrease the level limit for recruiting prisoners, then change the 3 instances of 40 to anything between 1 and 39. Prisoners above that level won't be recruitable. So with a value of 1, you won't be able to recruit prisoners at all. Alternatively, if you want to be able to recruit all high level prisoners (40+), then replace the above code with the following one. Noldor Warriors are a special exception for being only lvl 36, and still not being recruitable. The replacement below has that exception removed:

96 2031 1 1441151880758558778 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 1651 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774917 648518346341351424 1224979098644774916 2147485155 1 1224979098644774917 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 99 4 0 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774915 1 3 0 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 0 2060 1 864691128455135295 5 0 31 2 144115188075856176 0 2270 1 144115188075856178 2136 3 1224979098644774920 0 100 2170 3 1224979098644774921 1369094286720630791 360287970189639680 2121 3 1224979098644774922 15 1224979098644774921 2107 2 1224979098644774922 4 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774922 2133 2 144115188075856176 -7 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 1651 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774917 648518346341351424 1224979098644774916 2147485155 1 1224979098644774917 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 99 4 0 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774912 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774917 648518346341351424 1224979098644774916 2147485155 1 1224979098644774917 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 99 4 0


As usual, watch for the gaps, so that exactly 1 remains at the start and at the end of the replacement.

4) To change the time limit when you will be allowed to recruit the next batch of prisoners, search for this piece within mno_camp_recruit_prisoners:

105 1 1 2270 1 1224979098644774912 2106 2 1224979098644774912 24 32 2 1224979098644774912 144115188075856178 4 0 32 2 144115188075856178 0


The number 24 is the number of hours needed between two attempts to recruit prisoners. Change it to whatever you want (reduce it). However note that the complete elimination cannot be achieved by simply replacing that 24 with 0. You will also have to delete all the parts marked with blue and decrease the operation counter before the above piece by 4 (11 -> 7 in case of PoP). Once again, make sure that exactly 1 gap remains at the place of the deleted content. In case of other mods, you'll also have to adjust the following number, by replacing:

144115188075856178 (2 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_prisoner_recruit_last_time variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

5) To change the chance of recruited prisoner troops escaping, open simple_triggers.txt and search for:

2107 2 1224979098644774912 5 2121 3 1224979098644774913 66 1224979098644774912


The formula for the chance of recruited prisoners excaping is: 66% - (YourLeadershipSkill * 5)%. So by default with 10 leadership, that chance gets reduced to 16%. Change the above values to your liking. In case of other mods, the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774912) might be different, but the structure is likely the same, likewise the highlighted values.

Tweak 17 f)

To be able to hire soldiers from the prisoners of lords and their garrison - credits to VonDegurechaff

With this tweak, it will be possible to hire new soldiers from the prisoners of lords and their garrisons. The circumstances and requirements are:

The costs will be determined by the same script that is responsible for hiring mercenaries from taverns
The "bounty hunt" KO quest must be inactive
Your relationship with the given lord or the owner of the garrison must be at least 25
The chance that a troop stack will agree to join you is 20% by default
Troops of level 40 and below will be hirable. Noldors (with the exception of Noldor Hunters) and undead units won't join you
This special recruitment will be available upon every 2 days
To hire from a town's garrison, you will need to speak to the guildmaster
Maximum 20 troops can be hired at a time from a garrison

If none of the captives 'agreed' to join you, then after clicking on the option, the dialogue will simply disappear for the sake of simplification.

File: conversation.txt

1) Find these two lines:

dlga_lord_talk:lord_leave 69631 475  2 2147483678 2 144115188075855897 0 2147484208 3 144115188075855892 8 0 This_audience_is_over._I_leave_now.  863  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_talk:lord_leave.1 69631 475  2 30 2 144115188075855897 0 2147484208 3 144115188075855892 8 0 I_must_beg_my_leave.  863  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


2) Replace them with these two respectively:

dlga_lord_talk:lord_leave 69631 475  2 2147483678 2 144115188075855897 0 2147484208 3 144115188075855892 8 0 This_audience_is_over._I_leave_now.  863  17 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 301 1 1650 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351427 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774912 1652 3 1224979098644774914 648518346341351427 1224979098644774913 1653 3 1224979098644774915 648518346341351427 1224979098644774913 1650 2 1224979098644774916 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774916 1652 3 1224979098644774918 648518346341351425 1224979098644774917 31 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774918 1653 3 1224979098644774919 648518346341351425 1224979098644774917 2106 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774919 3 0 1616 3 144115188075856280 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 3 0 501 3 144115188075856280 301 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_lord_talk:lord_leave.1 69631 475  2 30 2 144115188075855897 0 2147484208 3 144115188075855892 8 0 I_must_beg_my_leave.  863  17 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 301 1 1650 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351427 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774912 1652 3 1224979098644774914 648518346341351427 1224979098644774913 1653 3 1224979098644774915 648518346341351427 1224979098644774913 1650 2 1224979098644774916 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774916 1652 3 1224979098644774918 648518346341351425 1224979098644774917 31 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774918 1653 3 1224979098644774919 648518346341351425 1224979098644774917 2106 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774919 3 0 1616 3 144115188075856280 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 3 0 501 3 144115188075856280 301 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


3) Then find this line:

dlga_mayor_talk:close_window 69631 1390  0 Leave.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


And replace it with this:

dlga_mayor_talk:close_window 69631 1390  0 Leave.  6  17 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 301 1 1650 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351427 6 3 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774912 1652 3 1224979098644774914 648518346341351427 1224979098644774913 1653 3 1224979098644774915 648518346341351427 1224979098644774913 1650 2 1224979098644774916 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774916 1652 3 1224979098644774918 648518346341351425 1224979098644774917 31 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774918 1653 3 1224979098644774919 648518346341351425 1224979098644774917 2106 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774919 3 0 1616 3 144115188075856280 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 3 0 501 3 144115188075856280 301 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


4) Lastly, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 2 (4152 -> 4154) and add these two lines to the end of the file, as a new line each:

dlga_lord_talk:lord_pretalk 69631 475  6 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 560 3 144115188075855892 22 25 2272 1 1224979098644774912 2147484209 3 144115188075856280 200 1224979098644774912 1651 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 32 2 1224979098644774913 0 I_want_to_buy_your_prisoners.  227  30 2272 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 501 3 144115188075856280 300 1224979098644774912 1617 1 648518346341351425 1651 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856280 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856280 1224979098644774914 2147485155 1 1224979098644774915 2171 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 40 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639943 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639941 1506 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 3 1657 3 1224979098644774918 144115188075856280 1224979098644774914 6 3 1224979098644774919 0 1224979098644774918 2136 3 1224979098644774920 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774920 20 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774915 1 3 0 3 0 4 0 1650 2 1224979098644774921 648518346341351425 32 2 1224979098644774921 0 501 3 144115188075856280 301 1 1617 1 648518346341351427 1 3 936748722493063335 648518346341351427 648518346341351425 1320 1 648518346341351425 2045 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_mayor_talk:mayor_pretalk 69631 1390  7 2147483848 1 504403158265495618 521 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856143 7 560 3 1224979098644774912 22 25 2272 1 1224979098644774913 2147484209 3 144115188075856143 300 1224979098644774913 1651 2 1224979098644774914 144115188075856143 32 2 1224979098644774914 0 I_want_to_buy_prisoners  1407  35 2272 1 1224979098644774912 2105 2 1224979098644774912 1 501 3 144115188075856143 300 1224979098644774912 1617 1 648518346341351425 1651 2 1224979098644774913 144115188075856143 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856143 1224979098644774914 2147485155 1 1224979098644774915 2171 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 40 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639943 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639941 1506 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 3 1657 3 1224979098644774918 144115188075856143 1224979098644774914 6 3 1224979098644774919 0 1224979098644774918 2136 3 1224979098644774920 0 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774920 20 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774915 1 3 0 4 0 1601 2 1224979098644774921 648518346341351425 30 2 1224979098644774921 20 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 1650 2 1224979098644774922 648518346341351425 32 2 1224979098644774922 0 501 3 144115188075856143 301 1 1617 1 648518346341351427 1 3 936748722493063335 648518346341351427 648518346341351425 1320 1 648518346341351425 2045 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file! The 1 in both conversation lines is the cooldown timer, where each increment by 1 represents an additional 2 in-game days added (0 = infinitely repeatable, 1 = 2 days, 2 = 4 days, etc.). The 360287970189639943 is for prohibiting the hiring of Noldor Warriors and the 360287970189639941 is for preventing the hiring of Noldor Rangers. Replace them with 0 respectively to remove these restrictions. The remaining highlighted values already got described in the beginning. Change them together in both lines (20 can only be found in the latter line), to your liking!

Tweak 17 g)

To disable prisoner troops escaping from prison over time - credits to Dalion

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find this trigger:

168.000000  23 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 1651 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2123 3 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2 7 3 1224979098644774915 0 1224979098644774913 1656 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 2147485155 1 1224979098644774916 1657 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 2136 3 1224979098644774918 0 40 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774914 2110 2 1224979098644774918 100 4 0 541 3 1224979098644774912 275 1 2108 2 1224979098644774918 2 3 0 2107 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774918 2108 2 1224979098644774917 100 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774918 20 2111 2 1224979098644774917 1 3 0 1616 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774917 3 0 3 0


2) Decrease the 23 by 1 (23 -> 22), and delete the part in blue. Make sure that only 1 gap remains at the place of the deleted piece! In case of other mods, the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774912) are likely different. However, there should be only one instance of 1616 inside a trigger starting with 168.000000, so you should still be able to locate the piece to be deleted.

Tweak 17 h)

Recruitment overhaul for rescued Noldor prisoners - credits to VonDegurechaff

this tweak is mutually exclusive with any other tweak that touches the party_add_party_prisoners script!

By default, you are unable to hire any rescued Noldor prisoners apart from the rare Noldor Hunters. This tweak changes that and works according to the following formula: random [0 - 99] + (relations / 4), rolled for each unit separately. Relations with the Noldor must be 0 or higher. The resulting number has to be greater or equal to the following numbers for a unit to successfully become able to hire:

86 for Noldor Warriors
93 for Noldor Rangers
99 for Noldor Maiden Rangers
110 for Noldor Nobles
117 for Noldor Twilight Knights

As such, with a relationship of 0, the hiring chance is 14% for a Noldor Warrior, 7% for a Noldor Ranger and 1% for a Noldor Maiden Ranger. Whereas you won't be able to hire a Noldor Noble or a Noldor Twilight Knight at all if the relationship is not at least 44 or 72 respectively. After a given troop stack has been processed, the chance to recruit further units from other stacks decreases for that group of rescued prisoners. This chance penalty equals to the amount of hireable rescued units from the previous stack x 2. E.g. if you hired 4 Noldor Warriors, then the chance penalty for the next stack of Noldor Rangers (from the same battle) would be -8. This is done in order to make the freeing of giant Noldor stacks impossible, so that the result can be at least a modest hiring system. Noldor Hunters will still join you 100% of times.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find the script called party_add_party_prisoners and replace everything in its body with this:

71 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 23 2 1224979098644774913 2 23 2 1224979098644774914 3 1651 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 6 3 1224979098644774916 0 1224979098644774915 1656 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 3221226979 1 1224979098644774917 31 2 144115188075855940 1 2171 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 4 0 2133 2 1224979098644774920 2 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639941 33 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 360287970189639947 2190 3 1224979098644774921 432345564227567643 432345564227567630 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774921 0 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774921 2133 2 1224979098644774920 1 2108 2 1224979098644774921 4 2111 2 1224979098644774921 0 3 0 5 0 1073743331 1 1224979098644774917 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 40 2133 2 1224979098644774920 0 3 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774920 2 3221225505 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640046 360287970189640051 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 2147483681 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640106 360287970189640184 1657 3 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774920 1 2120 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774919 1 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 6 3 1224979098644774925 0 1224979098644774924 2133 2 1224979098644774923 0 2136 3 1224979098644774922 0 100 2105 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774921 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639943 30 2 1224979098644774922 86 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639941 30 2 1224979098644774922 93 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639944 30 2 1224979098644774922 99 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639945 30 2 1224979098644774922 110 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 360287970189639946 30 2 1224979098644774922 117 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774923 1 2105 2 1224979098644774926 1 2106 2 1224979098644774921 2 3 0 2111 2 1224979098644774926 0 2133 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774926 3 0 1610 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774919 3 0 3 0 


Don't forget to leave an extra gap at the beginning!

2) The highlighted numbers from above mean the following:

0: the relation threshold under which recruiting Noldors (aside from Hunters) is impossible. If you set this to a negative value, then the (relations / 4) part of the formula will become 0.
40: the level limit for hiring other rescued prisoners. Replace it with 61 to be able to recruit any troop in the game
4: the divisor of faction relations with the Noldor in the above formula. Do not make it lower than 1!
0 100: the random number roll between 0 and 99. The higher end of the range is always lowered by 1.
86: the sum required for hiring Noldor Warriors
93: the sum required for hiring Noldor Rangers
99: the sum required for hiring Noldor Maiden Rangers
110: the sum required for hiring Noldor Nobles
117: the sum required for hiring Noldor Twilight Knights
2: the hiring chance penalty multiplier

Change them as you see fit!

Tweak 17 i)

Overhaul of the system about hiring rescued prisoners - credits to Timon

this tweak is mutually exclusive with any other tweak that touches the party_add_party_prisoners script!

Through this new system, you can recruit any rescued prisoner troop once certain conditions are met. However, by default, your game will not be made easier or cheesy. So if you want to recruit those Noldors, then you will need to have a high level character, good relations with the Noldor and enough points in Persuasion skill. Those troops who refuse to join your party can be captured as prisoners and then sold for ransom. Overall, this new recruitment system will be quite realistic and sometimes hardcore even, but you can customize it to your own taste. Everything set will apply to both the player and the AI.

The main formula behind the new system: hiring_factor = hero_level + persuasion_skill + relation_bonus - relation_penalty + player/AI_modifier + random [-5,7]. The values get calculated separately for each stack of troops:

relation_bonus: +1 for every 10 positive relations with the given stack
relation_penalty: -1 for every 5 negative relations with the given stack
player/AI_modifier: -5 for the player, +5 for the AI

You may set the -5 to a higher number to make it easier, but remember that the player is capable to get 10 in Persuasion skill, which evens out with the AI's +5 in the long run.

Those rescued prisoners that share the same faction/culture with the player will all be available to join you after the battle. Soldiers of level 15 and below will all be available to join your party as well. Furthermore, there is a chance (% = (persuasion_skill * 5/10) + 10/10) for each stack of troops that regardless of their level, they will join your party. Kind of a jackpot (majestic speech via persuasion). To disable this extra, replace both 5 and 10 with -1. In every other case, the hiring_factor will get compared to the level of the stack of rescued troops:

if hiring_factor >= troop_level, then all units in the stack will be available to join you.
if hiring_factor < troop_level, but the difference is less than 10, then 10%-90% of the units in question will be available for recruitment, -10% for each point of difference.
otherwise the rescued troops will not join your party as new soldiers

A random number of rescued soldiers who refused to join will become your prisoners. The maximum amount for each stack is 100% and the minimum is (prisoner_management / 15) [%]. Thus, with a Prisoner Management of 10, 66%-100% of those who refused to join you will become your prisoners instead (the rest will vanish). If you want to disable this feature, then change the 1 to 10000.

As an example, let’s take that you are level 25 with 7 points in Persuasion and 4 in Prisoner Management, you are a vassal of The Kingdom of Sarleon, you have +100 relations with the Noldor, -40 relations with the Heretics and 0 relations with the Order of the Phoenix. You defeat Lord Titus on the battlefield, who has 6 Sarleon Knights, 5 Knights of the Phoenix, 15 Noldor Warriors, 25 Noldor Twilight Knights, 20 Heretic Worshipers and 70 Heretic Minions as prisoners. Your raw hiring_factor for that fight will be 25 + 7 - 5 + random [-5,7] = random [22,34], without taking into account the relations with the respective factions.

Thus, the following prisoners will become available for your to hire:

6 Sarleon Knights (all of them, because your faction = their faction)
0 Knights of the Phoenix (hiring_factor (random [22,34]) < troop_level (50), by more than 10)
9-15 Noldor Warriors (hiring_factor (random [22,34]) + 10 (relation_bonus) < or >= troop_level (36), depending on the roll. The lowest roll would be 32 < 36, which is 4 points lower, so in that case you'll fail to get 4*10% = 40% of the troops in the stack. Therefore, you'll get 60% to 100% of the Noldor Warriors)
0 Noldors Twilight Knights (hiring_factor (random [22,34]) + 10 (relation_bonus) < troop_level (60), by more than 10)
0-8 Heretic Worshipers (hiring_factor (random [22,34]) - 8 (relation_penalty) < troop_level (30), by 4 or more. Therefore, you'll get 0% to 40% of the Heretic Worshipers)
70 Heretic Minions (all of them, as their level is less than or equal to 15)

Moreover, each stack of these troops can join your party with a 4.5% chance, even those who refused to join at first ("jackpot"). The remaining units will have a chance to be taken as prisoners. The minimum ratio of captives taken per stack will be equal to 26% (4/15 * 100%). So, the possible amount of units captured will be:

2-6 Knights of the Phoenix (26%-100% of 6)
0-6 Noldor warriors (26%-100% of 0-6)
7-25 Noldor Twilight Knights (26%-100% of 25)
3-20 Heretic Worshipers (26%-100% of 12-20)

Files:

menus.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open up menus.txt and find this piece of code:

648518346341351442 1 4 936748722493063332 648518346341351425 648518346341351439 1 4


2) Replace it with this:

648518346341351442 1 5 936748722493063332 648518346341351425 648518346341351439 1 648518346341351424 4


3) Next, find this piece:

1 4 936748722493063332 648518346341351425 648518346341351424 0 1


4) And replace it with this:

1 5 936748722493063332 648518346341351425 648518346341351424 0 144115188075856187 1


5) Then, open up scripts.txt and find this piece of code:

1 4 936748722493063332 648518346341351429 1224979098644774935 0 1


6) Replace it with this:

1 5 936748722493063332 648518346341351429 1224979098644774935 0 1224979098644774933 1


7) Lastly, locate the script called party_add_party_prisoners and replace everything in its body with this:

74 23 2 1224979098644774912 1 23 2 1224979098644774913 2 23 2 1224979098644774914 3 23 2 1224979098644774915 4 1652 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 0 2171 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774916 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 2105 2 1224979098644774917 -5 2133 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075856287 5 0 2105 2 1224979098644774917 5 2204 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774915 3 0 2170 3 1224979098644774919 7 1224979098644774916 2170 3 1224979098644774920 2 1224979098644774916 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774919 2122 3 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774919 5 2105 2 1224979098644774921 10 1651 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774913 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774922 1656 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774923 3221226979 1 1224979098644774924 31 2 144115188075856012 1 2173 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774924 2171 2 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774924 2136 3 1224979098644774927 -5 7 2120 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774927 2190 3 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774918 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774929 0 2123 3 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774929 10 5 0 2123 3 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774929 5 3 0 2105 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774930 1657 3 1224979098644774931 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774931 4 0 3221225505 3 1224979098644774924 360287970189640046 360287970189640051 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 2147483681 3 1224979098644774924 360287970189640106 360287970189639680 4 0 2136 3 1224979098644774927 0 1000 1073743331 1 1224979098644774924 1073741855 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774918 1073741854 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774926 3221225502 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774921 2147483680 2 1224979098644774926 15 1610 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774931 2133 2 1224979098644774932 0 5 0 2121 3 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774928 2147483678 2 1224979098644774933 10 2121 3 1224979098644774934 10 1224979098644774933 2122 3 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774931 1224979098644774934 2108 2 1224979098644774935 10 2105 2 1224979098644774934 1 2122 3 1224979098644774936 1224979098644774931 1224979098644774934 2108 2 1224979098644774936 10 2136 3 1224979098644774937 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774936 1610 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774937 2106 2 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774937 3 0 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774932 1 2122 3 1224979098644774938 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774920 2108 2 1224979098644774938 15 2105 2 1224979098644774932 1 2136 3 1224979098644774932 1224979098644774938 1224979098644774932 1611 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774932 3 0 3 0 3 0 


Watch for the initial gap! The highlighted values are those mentioned in the mechanics above.

Tweak 17 j)

To edit the cost of noble troops

File: conversation.txt

1) Find and observe these 4 lines:

dlga_pop2_war_room_noble_recruits:pop2_war_room_noble_recruits 4095 1009  1 522 3 72057594037927937 432345564227567629 70 Very_good,_{reg63?M'Lord:m'Lady}._It_takes_500_crowns_for_each_Noble_that_you_accept_into_your_court._It_also_requires_that_you_have_a_training_ground_present_at_this_location._Each_Noble_can_then_be_put_onto_the_path_to_be_trained_into_an_elite_defender_of_the_realm,_and_the_type_of_Noble_will_be_based_upon_our_culture._^^There_are_{reg1}_Nobles_willing_to_join_you.  1009  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop2_war_room_noble_recruits:pop2_war_room_noble_recruits.1 69631 1009  31 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 32 2 144115188075856294 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 500 541 3 144115188075856143 274 1 562 3 432345564227567629 70 1 522 3 1224979098644774914 144115188075856294 10 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567623 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639777 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567624 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639796 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567625 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639816 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567626 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639837 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567627 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639858 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 432345564227567628 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639875 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639735 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927956 1224979098644774915 2322 2 17 1224979098644774915 Accept_1x_{s17}_into_your_court_for_500_denars.  1009  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 500 522 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 70 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 502 3 432345564227567629 70 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 72057594037927956 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop2_war_room_noble_recruits:pop2_war_room_noble_recruits.2 69631 1009  8 32 2 144115188075856294 0 541 3 144115188075856143 274 1 522 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 70 30 2 1224979098644774912 10 1633 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 30 2 1224979098644774913 10 2149 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774914 5000 Accept_10x_{s17}_into_your_court_for_5000_denars.  1009  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 5000 522 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 70 2106 2 1224979098644774912 10 502 3 432345564227567629 70 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 72057594037927956 10 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop2_war_room_noble_recruits:pop2_war_room_noble_recruits.3 69631 1009  22 32 2 144115188075856294 0 541 3 144115188075856143 274 1 522 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 70 30 2 1224979098644774912 2 1633 2 1224979098644774913 648518346341351424 30 2 1224979098644774913 2 2149 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774914 1000 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 3 0 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 500 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 2123 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 500 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 500 3 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 32 2 1224979098644774915 0 2133 2 72057594037927976 1224979098644774912 2133 2 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 Accept_{reg40}x_{s17}_into_your_court_for_{reg41}_denars.  1009  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 72057594037927977 522 3 1224979098644774912 432345564227567629 70 2106 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927976 502 3 432345564227567629 70 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 72057594037927956 72057594037927976 NO_VOICEOVER 


2) The highlighted values of 500 (1 instance in line 1, 3 instances in line 2 & 4) and 5000 (x10, 3 instances in line 3) are what you need to change to another value. Make sure that the latter remains to be tenfold the amount of the former!

Tweak 17 k)

To change which troops are available for hire in taverns and how much does it cost - credits to Dalion, SPD_Phoenix and The Mercenary

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) To add new mercenaries to taverns. The game selects mercenaries from a range based on troops.txt, where their entries follow each other in a row. This tweak will follow the same principle, while keeping the original mercenary range intact, so that they will remain accessible. Therefore it's important that you have the new troops you want to add follow each other in a row as well. Make sure that if you create new units (with Morgh's Editor for example), then they are all added to the end of the troops.txt file. So, to start off, find the script that is named update_mercenary_units_of_towns and replace everything in its body with this:

 15 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 2133 2 1224979098644774913 -1 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 2 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 2136 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189639737 360287970189639764 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 5 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639715 360287970189639753 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 3 0 501 3 1224979098644774912 90 1224979098644774913 2136 3 1224979098644774917 2 10 501 3 1224979098644774912 91 1224979098644774917 3 0


Make sure that there is a gap at the start too! The red number should be set to the start of your troop range, while the blue number should be set to the end of the range +1. The troop constant is "360287970189639680", to which you have to add the entry number of the given unit found in Morgh's Editor. The above red and blue numbers should be then replaced by the resulting numbers of the addition. Keep in mind that the end of the range has to be set beyond the last troop you want to appear in taverns. So for example, if your range of extra mercenaries is #1203 - #1208, then the red number should equal to 360287970189639680 + 1203, while the blue number should be equal to 360287970189639680 + 1209. Lastly, the 2 10 is the range of the available amount of mercenaries at a time in [min max-1] format, so it's 2-9 in this case. Change it to your liking! Once you are done, it is recommended to start a new game to avoid any problems that may occur.

2) To make Farmers and Towmsmen be recruitable as mercenaries too, find this piece of code:

2136 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639737 360287970189639764


And decrease that 360287970189639737 by 2 (360287970189639737 -> 360287970189639735). In case of other mods, you have to reconsider adjusting the highlighted 360287970189639737 360287970189639764 mercenary troop range, depending on how far Farmers are from it and whether you want to include the troops in-between as well. Instructions for adjustment can be found in point 5)

3) To allow all troops in the game to be offered as mercenaries in taverns. With this tweak, you can put the variety of mercenaries available in taverns to the extreme. From mere Peasants to Noldor Twilight Knights, anything would be possible, depending on your luck! Even the likes of Demonic Magni, Fallen Revenants, Seeresses, Asp Vanguards, Anaconda Knights, etc., so be warned :P The wages are unchanged, meaning that the original mercenary units will keep their mercenary wages, and all the other units will have their regular wages. Also, this tweak is incompatible with the previous two. To apply it, replace the body of the update_mercenary_units_of_towns script with this one:

24 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 2136 3 1224979098644774913 1 7 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 2136 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639735 360287970189639764 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 2 2136 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639765 360287970189639947 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 3 2136 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639948 360287970189639980 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 4 2136 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639999 360287970189640030 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 5 2136 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640031 360287970189640046 5 0 2136 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640060 360287970189640099 3 0 501 3 1224979098644774912 90 1224979098644774914 2136 3 1224979098644774915 2 10 501 3 1224979098644774912 91 1224979098644774915 3 0 


That's it. Watch for the gap at the start!

4) To change the hiring cost of mercenaries, find this piece of code under the script called game_get_join_cost:

5 2107 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774913 2105 2 1224979098644774913 40 2108 2 1224979098644774913 5 4 0 152 1 1224979098644774912 2107 2 1224979098644774913 2


The formula for the hiring price per mercenary troop is: ((level+5)^2+40)/5, and the result gets multiplied by 2 if the troop is mounted. In case of other mods, the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774913) might be different, but the structure and the highlighted values should be the same.

5) In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to find them or have a correct replacement. So, replace:

648518346341351446 648518346341351464 (point 1) & 3) party range with that of the first town from the lower end, and to that of the party after the last town (last_town + 1) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 648518346341351424 + № of a party from parties.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor).
360287970189639737 360287970189639764 (point 1) & 2) troop range with that of the first mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last mercenary troop (last_mercenary_troop + 1, might be equal with trp_mercenaries_end) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189639735 360287970189639764 (point 3) troop range (#1) with that of the first desired mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mercenary troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189639765 360287970189639947 (point 3) troop range (#2) with that of the first desired mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mercenary troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189639948 360287970189639980 (point 3) troop range (#3) with that of the first desired mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mercenary troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189639999 360287970189640030 (point 3) troop range (#4) with that of the first desired mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mercenary troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640031 360287970189640046 (point 3) troop range (#5) with that of the first desired mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mercenary troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640060 360287970189640099 (point 3) troop range (#6) with that of the first desired mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mercenary troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Tweak 17 l)

To add mercenary wages to a new range of troops - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: scripts.txt

1) Under the script called game_get_troop_wage, find this piece:

33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639737 360287970189639764


2) And replace it with this:

1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639737 360287970189639764 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156 360287970189640184


Notice the 33 at the beginning getting replaced with 1073741857. This will be an important detail later on. Also, watch for the gaps, so that one remains before and after the above piece!

3) The 360287970189640156 is the first troop's ID and the 360287970189640184 is the last troop's ID in the new range. You can adjust these by opening the Troop Editor within Morgh's Editor, and make the values correspond to the following calculation: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop. Remember that the higher end of the range always has to be set to 1 higher than the troop ID you'd like to have. For example, in the above example, 360287970189640156 corresponds to Iris the Lotus (360287970189639680 + 476) and 360287970189640184 corresponds to William (360287970189639680 + 503 + 1).

4) In case you want to add another troop range, you will have to change the 33 to 1073741857, and then add another instance of the highlighted 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156 360287970189640184 after the piece seen in point 2), separated by 1 gap. Rinse and repeat for every further troop range. As such, the result should look like this for 2 more troop ranges added (3 new ranges in total):

1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639737 360287970189639764 1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156 360287970189640184 1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156 360287970189640184 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156 360287970189640184


Of course, each troop range has to be adjusted still, as shown in point 3).

5) Alternatively, to add only 1-1 troop from different places, instead of the highlighted 33 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156 360287970189640184 and 1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156 360287970189640184 instances, use the following pieces respectively with the same logic/pattern:

31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156
1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640156


6) For every new range of troops or a given troop added, increase the operation counter at the beginning of the script by 1 (62 -> 65 in case of 3 new ranges as seen above). In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to find them or have a correct replacement. So, replace:

360287970189639737 360287970189639764 (point 1, 2 & 4) troop range with that of the first mercenary troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last mercenary troop (last_mercenary_troop + 1, might be equal with trp_mercenaries_end) from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Tweak 17 m)

To allow accessing and changing the inventories of troops from in-game - credits to Tan Sulla

This tweak will make your other savegames unloadable after disabling the dont_load_regular_troop_inventories flag! So changing that flag after starting a new game makes that given save unloadable. This also means that you need to start a new game in order to be able to apply the changes below.

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

With this tweak, you'll have the power to make all troops in the game fully customizeable in terms of equipment. This is done by making regular troops have the same interaction menu that companions have, along with the option to change their equipment. But, beware that other companion-related features won't work, so don't even bother with these if you don't want to break your game. Changes to the inventories of troops apply at the moment you enter a new scene or battle, so these are completely savegame-compatible and you don't even need to restart your game session or reload your savegame. Also, the changes will apply to all instances of the edited unit, meaning that not only your allies, but your enemies will have the change as well. Lastly, note that until entering a scene, troops with accessed/edited inventories will be shown as if they were naked in the party screen.

Files:

module.ini
conversation.txt

1) Open module.ini and find this line:

dont_load_regular_troop_inventories = 1


2) Change that 1 to 0

3) Now open conversation.txt and find this piece:

4 2200 1 144115188075855892 1507 1 144115188075855892


4) Replace it with this:

3 2200 1 144115188075855892


5) Also, find this piece:

Very_well,_it's_all_here...  175  1 2051 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


6) And replace it with this:

Very_well,_it's_all_here...  175  7 2200 1 144115188075855892 4 0 1507 1 144115188075855892 2051 0 5 0 2042 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


7) Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from above. So replace:

'4 and 3 (point 3 & 4): the operation counters. Might be different in case of other mods. The latter has to be -1 lower than the former.
144115188075855892 (point 3, 2 instances; point 4); point 6), 2 instances) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of g_talk_troop variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
175 (point 5 & 6) with the number you got for do_member_trade in dialog_states.txt (line-1 in Notepad++)

Tweak 17 n)

To add a button leading to the belonging troop tree of each troop's party screen - credits to Vetrogor

Note: troops that cannot be trained further won't have the "Troop Tree" button showcased. Also, the higher tier units of Barclay, Melitine and Mettenheim are unable to get redirected to the respective troop trees due the entry units being mercenary troops, thus making their troop tree appear in the "Mercenaries" tab instead of "Others".

The result should look like this: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1032960627353166329/DA3C45FD0D1886D0EC8D9FB5579FF1E5931D7EEA/

Files:

scripts.txt
game_variables.txt
module.ini
ui.csv

1) Open scripts.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (754 -> 755) and add this script to the end of the file as 2 new lines:

game_troop_upgrades_button_clicked -1
 5 23 2 72057594037927936 1 2133 2 144115188075857266 72057594037927936 1 2 936748722493063885 144115188075857266 2133 2 144115188075857267 72057594037927936 900 1 1513209474796486712 


Make sure there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Now open game_variables.txt and after party_t_upgrade_text_color = 0xFF991100, add these two in form of 2 new lines:

party_b_troop_upgrades_position_x = 0.09
party_b_troop_upgrades_position_y = 0.25


3) Also, after party_b_move_down_h = 0.03, add this in form of a new line:

party_b_troop_upgrades_h = 0.033


4) Next, open module.ini and put this line to the end of the file:

show_troop_upgrades_button = 1


This means that from now on, you can turn on/off this button at your will. Make sure there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

5) Lastly, open ui.csv at languages\en\ within PoP's module, and add the following entry to the end of the file:

ui_troop_upgrades| Troop Tree 


Make sure there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

Tweak 17 o)

To make more troops mix-gendered - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

You can make troops mix-gendered via applying the same kind of mechanic that some Fierdsvain units have (35% females, 65% males) to another troop range.

Files:

scripts.txt
mission_templates.txt

1) Open scripts.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (754 -> 755) and add this script to the end of the file as 2 new lines:

cf_set_troop_gender -1
 12 21 1 1224979098644774912 1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639823 360287970189639827 1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639837 360287970189639840 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640014 540 3 1224979098644774912 404 0 2136 3 1224979098644774913 0 100 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774913 64 1505 2 1224979098644774912 0 5 0 1505 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 


Make sure there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) The above is just for Fierdsvain units (you'll need to change them in case of other mods as shown in point 6). Now we add another troop range to it (in this example, all Pendor troops). Increase the 12 by 1 (12 -> 13), and right before the 31, add this piece of code (this is also how you add further troop ranges in case of other mods):

1073741857 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639865 360287970189639884


As always, watch for the gaps! The 360287970189639865 is the ID number of Pendor Recruit, representing the lower end of the designated troop range. The ID number is created by adding the troop's sequence number (which can be most easily checked with Morgh's Editor) to the troop constant: 360287970189639680 + 185 = 360287970189639865. Likewise, the 360287970189639884 is the ID number of Red Brotherhood Thief (360287970189639680 + 204 = 360287970189639884), representing the upper end of the range. The troop ID for the upper range has to be +1 higher than the actual designated troop's ID, that being Pendor Plack Archer. Adjust the green and purple numbers accordingly, or leave them be.

3) To add another troop range, increase the 13 (previously 12) by 1 again, then copy and paste the piece in point 2) after 360287970189639884. Rinse and repeat for further troop ranges.

4) Once done, open mission_templates.txt and find this trigger (skip this step in case of other mods!):

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  13 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639823 360287970189639827 1073741857 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189639837 360287970189639840 31 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189640014 540 3 1224979098644774913 404 0 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774914 64 1505 2 1224979098644774913 0 5 0 1505 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 


5) There are 33 instances of it in the whole file. Replace them all with this (skip this step in case of other mods!):

-25.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0 3 2071 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1 2 936748722493063922 1224979098644774913


In case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in scripts.txt (and in case of other mods), then that 936748722493063922 has to be adjusted accordingly: 936748722493063168 + № of the script from point 1 (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++). Otherwise the above will work as is.

6) In case of other mods, increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections (and any other you want to apply mix-gendered troops to):

mst_town_default
mst_town_center
mst_bandits_at_night (night ambushes)
mst_visit_town_castle
mst_back_alley_revolt (the revolt of the townsfolk that may happen while collecting taxes)
mst_lead_charge (field battles)
mst_village_attack_bandits (bandit infestations)
mst_village_raid (village fights)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle (siege offense continuation in castle hall)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center (siege offense continuation in courtyard)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally (sally-outs)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry (siege tower sieges)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder (ladder sieges)
mst_castle_visit
mst_sneak_caught_fight (when you get caught while trying to sneak into a walled fief)
mst_arena_melee_fight (arena fights)
mst_bandit_lair (bandit lairs)
mst_alley_fight
mst_town_fight

For each section, add the trigger from point 5) in form of a new line right under the previously increased trigger counters. Additionally, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to have a correct replacement. So, replace:

360287970189639823 360287970189639827 (point 1) troop range (#1) with that of the first desired mix-gendered troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mix-gendered troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189639837 360287970189639840 (point 1) troop range (#2) with that of the first desired mix-gendered troop from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last desired mix-gendered troop from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640014 (point 1) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of a single desired mix-gendered troop in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Tweak 17 p)

To make troops grab another shield from their equipment when the original gets broken - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!
This tweak is already part of Vetrogor's Dynamic Reassignment and Reequipment submod!

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections of your choice to where you want to add this tweak:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - siege offense continuation in courtyard (21 -> 22)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - siege offense continuation in castle hall (21 -> 22)
mst_sneak_caught_fight - when you get caught while trying to sneak into a walled fief (13 -> 14)
mst_bandits_at_night - night ambushes (9 -> 10)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 20)
mst_grandmaster_ambush - ambush in castle hall that starts the grandmaster quest (10 -> 11)

2) Right after the previously increased counters, add the following trigger as a new line:

0.300000 0.000000 0.000000  0  36 12 1 1224979098644774912 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1702 1 1224979098644774912 1707 1 1224979098644774912 1726 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 0 32 2 1224979098644774913 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 3 1073744548 2 1224979098644774913 1 1073744548 2 1224979098644774913 2 1073744548 2 1224979098644774913 4 2724 2 1224979098644774913 8 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 4 2147486371 2 1224979098644774913 2097152 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 2 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774915 1 1726 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1 31 2 1224979098644774913 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 4 6 3 1224979098644774917 0 1224979098644774916 1804 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 32 2 1224979098644774913 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774914 7 1747 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774916 0 3 0 3 0 


Feel free to increase the highlighted time interval (0.3) of the trigger to increase performance if needed.

Tweak 17 q)

Various little tweaks for troops (connect upgrade paths / be more viable / get unused and more fitting items) - credits to sher, Latis and The Sleeping Beard for some ideas

Editing the stats of troops requires a new game to take effect by default! However, you can use the above linked savegame editor to make the changes savegame-compatible

You will need the "Troop Editor" and "Party Templates Editor" of Morgh's Editor to make these changes. In case of the more complicated edits, I'll also provide the resulting entry for an easy copy-paste application.

Files:

troops.txt
party_templates.txt

Connecting the below troops via an upgrade path is just a compilation of ideas that you can do to spice up your game. Partly to acquire troops you couldn't before (at least not reliably) and to expand on existing troop trees for an increased gameplay variety. It will be quite hard to train the stronger units (levels between brackets), so you won't be able to train much of them. But new possibilities will arise, that's for certain! Also, "party leaders" will be finally connected to their respective troop trees. And lastly, don't question them: you either take it or not :P:

Sarleon_Armored_Longbowman [30] -> Red_Fletcher_Longbowman [35]
Sarleon_Cavalry [31] -> Marleons_Heavy_Cavalry [36]
Young_Sarleon_Adventurer [15] -> Adventurer [31] (upgrade path #2)
Rogue_Sarleon_Squire [20] -> Outlaw_Knight_of_the_Boar [35] (instead of Adventurer, upgrade path #1)
Ravenstern_Ranger [35] -> Iceguard_Ranger [40]
Mercenary_Highlander [30] -> Ravenstern_Highlander [39] (upgrade path #1)
Mercenary_Highlander [30] -> Snowlion_Footman [30] (upgrade path #2)
Snowlion_Footman [30] -> Snowlion_Longbowman [35] (upgrade path #1)
Snowlion_Footman [30] -> Snowlion_Lancer [30] (upgrade path #2) -> Snowlion_Noble [40]
D'Shar_Desert_Hunter [26] -> D'Shar_Djaha_Archer [35] (upgrade path #2)
D'Shar_Bandit [10] -> D'Shar_Outlaw_Chieftain [20] -> D'Shar_Deathwind_Savaran [36]
Fierdsvain_Hersir [40] -> Valdis_Huscarl [40]
Empire_Knight [40] -> Guardian_Empire_Knight [40] -> Iron_Circle_Centurion [50]
Pendor_Knight [40] -> Knight_of_the_Unicorn [40]
Rogue_Blackheart_Squire [20] -> Outlaw_Knight_of_the_Owl [30] (upgrade path #2)
Farmer [4] -> Pilgrim [5] (upgrade path #2)
Pilgrim [5] -> Snake_Cult_Follower [1] (upgrade path #2)
Town_Militiaman [10] -> Heretic_Minion [15] (upgrade path #2)
Heretic_Worshiper [30] -> Heretic_High_Priest (trp_heretic_lair_leader, upgrade path #2)
Heretic_Magnus [35] -> Heretic_Invoker [55]
Maiden_Warrior [15] -> Seer_Initiate [15] (upgrade path #2)
Jatu_Lancer [35] -> Zulkar's_Grim_Rider [40] (upgrade path #2)
Jatu_Battle_Rider [40] -> K'Juda's_Kajahar [50] (upgrade path #1)
Jatu_Battle_Rider [40] -> Jatu_Warlord [50] (upgrade path #2)
Mystmountain_Warrior [21] -> Mystmountain_Shaman [36]
Mystmountain_Shaman [36] -> Bearclaw_Berserker [45] (upgrade path #1) -> Wolfbode_Honor_Guard [50]
Mystmountain_Shaman [36] -> Mystmountain_Raiding_Chief (upgrade path #2)
Mettenheim_Hauptmann [45] -> Mettenheim_Forlorn_Hope [55]
Barclay_Imperial_Lancier [45] -> Barclay_Imperial_Chevalier [55]
Warden [20] -> Veccavi_Kral_Guard [20] (upgrade path #2)
Mercenary_Sergeant [37] -> Veccavi_Uncut [40]
Veccavi_Knight [36] -> Veccavi_Bloodsworn_Guard [47]
Noldor_Ranger [47] -> Noldor_Maiden_Ranger [55] (upgrade path #1)
Noldor_Ranger [47] -> Noldor_Noble [55] (upgrade path #2)
Maiden_Cavalry [30] -> Singalian_Temptress [35] (upgrade path #2)
Singalian_Temptress [35] -> Singalian_Vidona (trp_singal_lair_leader, upgrade path #1)
Singalian_Temptress [35] -> Omen_Seeker [40] (upgrade path #2)
Maiden_Ranger [20] -> Queen_Agnus_Freebooter [36] (upgrade path #2)
Vanskerry_Warrior [31] -> Vanskerry_Jarl [40] (upgrade path #1)
Vanskerry_Warrior [31] -> Vanskerry_Leader (upgrade path #2)
Brigand [10] -> Hired_Assassin [10] (upgrade path #1)
Brigand [10] -> Murdering_Arsonist [10] (upgrade path #2)
Highwayman [15] -> Red_Brotherhood_Thief [20] (upgrade path #1) -> Red_Brotherhood_Guildsman [35]
Highwayman [15] -> Notorious_Outlaw [30] (upgrade path #2)

Sarleon Armored Longbowman: not that good archer for being top-tier, so could at least have better survivability

Guarantee 'shield'

Sarleon Armored Footman: Sarleon Halberdiers take too long to train for their quality

upgrade to Sarleon Halberdier (instead of Sarleon Cavalry)

Sarleon Man-at-Arms:

Level: 31->26 (Sarleon Man-at-Arms have a bit high level for their quality)
Upgrade to Sarleon Cavalry (to justify the following buff)

Sarleon Cavalry: cavarly is meant to be Sarleon's strong side, so let's make it that way, for the commoner troop tree as well

Level: 31->36
STR: 21->24
AGI: 21->24
Strength skills: 7-6-6-6
Agility skills: 5-6-7-7
Melee profs: 260->280
Golden_Sun_Mail -> Knight's_Red_Surcoat
Mail_with_Surcoat -> Polished_Plate_Armor
Add 1x Gauntlets
Mail_Boots -> Iron_Greaves
Splinted_Leather_Greaves -> Shynbaulds
Sarleon_Longsword (2x) -> Morningstar (2x)
Bascinet_with_Nose_Guard -> Armet_with_Plume
Add 1x Armet_with_Plume
Bascinet_with_Aventail -> Armet_with_Plume_-_Open
Cap_&_Chain_Helm -> Sarleon_Rounded_Bascinet
Mercenary_Helm -> Sarleon_Rounded_Bascinet_-_Open
Add 2x Horseman's_Kite_Shield
Add 1x Red_Caparisoned_Hunter
Add 1x Charger
Add 1x Red_Leather_Draped_Warhorse

Screenshot: https://i77.servimg.com/u/f77/19/75/99/36/sarleo11.jpg And the resulting entry (6 lines):

trp_sarleon_cavalry Sarleon_Cavalry Sarleon_Cavalry 0 66061312 0 0 3 0 0
  1366 0 1378 0 1365 0 1367 0 571 0 419 0 443 0 700 0 696 0 759 0 766 0 1254 0 1254 0 1253 0 1245 0 1198 0 1198 0 1304 0 1304 0 1245 0 853 0 851 0 851 0 928 0 929 0 1473 0 1473 0 1537 0 1498 0 1506 0 1507 0 1518 0 1524 0 1521 0 170 0 170 0 189 0 215 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  24 24 9 9 36
 280 280 280 50 50 50 0
290 1610940416 1879048192 21863 484960 0 
  17179869185 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 50465891015 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 


Sarleon Halberdier:

Level: 36->35 (Sarleon Halberdiers have a bit high level for their quality)
Polished_Plate_Armor -> Sarleon_Red_Platemail (now it's one of Sarleon Cavalry's unique armor, so let's restore the original armor instead)

Sarleon Squire-at-Arms: Sarleon knights take too long to train, despite that cavalry is meant to be Sarleon's forte. Also buff them a bit as they are meant to be the best squires among nobles:

Level: 31->26
Guarantee 'shield'
Guarantee 'helmet'
Black_Leather_Boots -> Mail_Boots
Add 1x Mail_Mittens
Add 1x Flat_Topped_Helmet

The resulting entry:

trp_sarleon_squire Sarleon_Squire-at-Arms Sarleon_Squires-at-Arms 0 66061312 0 0 3 99 0
  696 0 695 0 755 0 748 0 550 0 550 0 1199 0 1394 0 1365 0 838 0 820 0 170 0 1472 0 546 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  21 21 9 9 26
 260 260 260 50 50 50 0
290 1610940416 1610612736 21590 415056 0 
  1 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 16106152647 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 


Ravenstern Highlander: make this unit have more uses, because currently no one would waste noble recruits to train Highlanders when Kierguards can do a similar job. With some unguaranteed bows, Highlanders would be more interesting to have. And they have 290 archery profs by default for that, which can be taken as an indication.

Add 1x Long_Composite_Bow
Add 1x Bodkin_Arrows
Add 1x Barbed_Arrows

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/911296978240492144/75DD4443E4DC1A4E8B257C547A820D28019B49FB/

Mercenary Highlander: differentiate them a bit more from Ravenstern Highlanders:

Visored_Steel_Helm -> Visored_Bascinet_-_Open (unused item, looks similar and has identical stats to Visored_Steel_Helm)

D'Shar Desert Hunter: too weak for his tier

Guarantee 'shield'

D'Shar Ghazi Marksman:

Heavy_D'Shar_Sabre -> D'Shar_Scimitar (Heavy D'Shar Sabre is for troops with high melee profs to counter the slow weapon speed. He is not one of those)

D'Shar Warrior: D'Shar Ghazi Dervishes have sabres, while D'Shar Warriors, the predecessor units lack any, which is weird

Add 1x Two_Handed_Sabre
D'Shar_Round_Shield -> D'Shar_Sabre (organized shield layout, and one more sabre for variety)
Add 1x Desert_Glaive (more variety)

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/857235787200317362/DAC0E879DC75788D9A024DC9BE39A30E8EEF123D/

D'Shar Ghazi Spearman: a spearman without much spears

Guarantee 'shield' (better survivability if one gets a D'Shar Spear)
Add 1x D'Shar_Round_Shield (rare shield to accompany D'Shar Spear)
Add 1x War_Spear (one more spear for a spearman)

D'Shar Ghazi Dervish:

Remove Round_D'Shar_Cross_Shield (organized shield layout, Torbah Desert Shield reserved for bladesmen only)

D'Shar Horseman:

Remove Torbah_Desert_Shield (organized shield layout, Torbah Desert Shield reserved for bladesmen only)

D'Shar Reaver:

Remove Round_D'Shar_Cross_Shield (organized shield layout, Torbah Desert Shield reserved for bladesmen only)

D'Shar Raider:

Long_Hafted_Blade -> D'Shar_Spear (weak and short two-handed polearm for a high-tier mounted unit, yikes)
Heavy_D'Shar_Sabre -> D'Shar_Scimitar (Heavy D'Shar Sabre is for troops with high melee profs to counter the slow weapon speed. He is not one of those)

D'Shar Ghazi Stalker:

D'Shar_Spear -> Light_Lance (more killing power for being a top-tier, hard to train unit)

D'Shar Noble Rider: D'Shar Noble Cavalry is not as good as Sarleon Knight, should be easier to train

Level: 31->26

D'Shar Noble Cavalry:

Add 1x Heavy_D'Shar_Sabre (for variety)

Fierdsvain Axeman: may get a crappy two-handed axe, which is even worse than the one-handed axes he could have instead

Axe -> Great_Axe

Fierdsvain Hersir:

Splinted_Greaves -> Mail_Boots (ugly, unfitting boots)

Empire Crossbowman: helpless in close melee

Black_Iron_Spear (2x) -> War_Spear (2x)

Empire Light Infantry: helpless in close melee

Black_Iron_Spear (2x) -> War_Spear (2x)

Empire Gladiator: not very popular troop for his wage and effort to train, and he also has a weird upgrade path from Empire Armored Pikeman

upgrade from Empire Heavy Infantry (lvl 20) instead of Empire Armored Pikeman (lvl 30)

Guardian Empire Knight: STR-skills identical to that of Empire Legionnaires and Empire Knights, despite being higher level and a rare household troop. The buff is also to justify the training from Empire Knights in case you applied the above upgrade path:

Strength skills: 7-6-6-6 -> 8-7-7-7

Pendor Swordsman: replace shitty 1h/2h sword (penalty with shields) with proper 1h swords fitting for his tier

Bastard_Sword (1x) -> Long_Steel_Sword (1x)
Bastard_Sword (1x) -> Steel_Sword (1x)

Pendor Cavalry: replace shitty 1h/2h sword (penalty with shields) with proper 1h swords fitting for his tier

Bastard_Sword (3x) -> Long_Steel_Sword (3x)
Bastard_Sword (3x) -> Steel_Sword (3x)

Pendor Bladesman: Pendor commoner troops are meant to be trained fast, and only the Pendor Bladesman is standing out from this aspect. An upgrade routine of 1h->2h->1h feels weird anyway, so logic-wise it's better if the Pendor Man-at-Arms branches separately. Especially because they have different weapons and uses.

upgrade from Pendor Swordsman (lvl 20) instead of Pendor Man-at-Arms (lvl 30)

Pendor Light Bowman:

Add 1x Arrows (chance for 2 bag of arrows as a compensation for not having a shield)

Pendor Heavy Bowman:

Add 1x Arrows (chance for 2 bag of arrows as a compensation for not having a shield)

Pendor Armored Bowman:

Add 1x Arrows (chance for 2 bag of arrows as a compensation for not having a shield)

Pendor Noble Bowman:

Add 1x Arrows (chance for 2 bag of arrows as a compensation for not having a guaranteed shield)
Bastard_Sword -> Long_Steel_Sword (replace shitty 1h/2h sword (penalty with shields) with a proper 1h sword)
Add 2x Black_Mail_&_Plate (46/14) (unused item)
1x Helmet_With_Cap (28) -> Helmet_with_Neckguard (35) (to increase variety)

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/857235787200316675/87AFBE6E451E1E4159C1BA9C950F2D08768C504B/ And the resulting entry:

trp_pendor_noble_bowman Pendor_Noble_Bowman Pendor_Noble_Bowmen 0 74448896 0 0 3 203 0
  1139 0 1138 0 755 0 546 0 549 0 549 0 697 0 745 0 1199 0 825 0 1494 0 1113 0 833 0 1196 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  18 18 6 6 21
 200 200 200 200 75 75 0
290 1610940416 1610612736 21588 415056 0 
  17179869185 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 54744064780 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 


Pendor Black Archer:

Add 1x Arrows (for variety)
Bastard_Sword (2x) -> Long_Steel_Sword (2x) (replace shitty 1h/2h sword (penalty with shields) with a proper 1h sword)


The Sleeping Beard's collection of troop changes

In addition to, or in some cases, instead of the above kingdom troop changes, you can try these as well: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1X0SjF1vR9SVDWQ65PGwPBPlb8yanYJKw?usp=sharing
Features:
A switch of the horses used by D'Shar troops for more variety
An overhaul of the Empire Gladiators into elite Legionnaires (harder to train, but more durable sword & shield infantry)
A remake of some Fierdsvain commoner troops, as well as all Fierdsvain nobles and rogue squires/knights, to represent their viking-ish culture a bit better
And some other minor changes (see "Troops changes.txt")
Screenshots:
https://imgur.com/a/u9D48AX
https://imgur.com/a/nqboDxb
https://imgur.com/a/hJC3Oyt
https://imgur.com/a/AfjcVy3
https://imgur.com/a/cYrfBza
https://imgur.com/a/IrWNSin
The linked .zip package contains the following:
Changelog.txt: a quick overview of the changes made past the initial version
Troops changes.txt: a detailed list of the overall changes made
Troop entries.txt: has the modified entries for troops.txt for an easy copy-paste application


Knights of the Griffon: add them as factional troops for Pendor's kingdom reinforcement templates. The most fitting knighthood order for this. Numbers below are [min - max] values:

pt_kingdom_6_reinforcements_b: Pendor Heavy Bowman [2-4] -> Pendor Black Archer [1-2] (making space by eliminating one stack of Pendor Heavy Bowman. Don't worry, another one will remain and archer power will roughly be the same)
pt_kingdom_6_reinforcements_c: Pendor Black Archer [1-2] -> Knight of the Griffon [1-2]
Remove 2x Riveted_Great_Helm (increase the chance for winged helms a bit, which is too rare to see)

Knight of the Ebony Gauntlet:

Remove 4x Black_Rounded_Bascinet (to increase chance for plumed version, which is too rare to see)
Add 1x Dark_Rounded_Bascinet_&_Black_Hood (unused item, looks good on them)
Iron_Mace -> Infantry_Mace (their original and better weapon)

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/904528168692735357/C78C3FE633E56D6B7261AD47C32A791EE3A584DE/

Ebony Gauntlet Hammer:

Add 1x Gold_Rounded_Bascinet_&_Red_Hood (unused item, to increase variety)

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/904528168692735536/156FE6C72519DAF48AA099654DAC3D9F3CF1D2B7/

Knight of the Dawn: give them some unused helmets, that look good

Add 1x Iron_Helm_&_White_Hood
Add 1x Silver_Knight_Helm

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/904528168692736327/C6C5FCAE65AF0D6A88707F55992F7CAECA3A34FC/

Larian Sentinel: bad melee weapon for self-defense, especially at the cost of sacrificing shields

Long_Awlpike -> Great_Long_Bardiche

Shadow Wolves: they lack potential for being KO knights. Some throwing weapons would help. Immortals still beat them reliably, but at least they are more useful with such throwing weapons

Add 1x Throwing_Spears

Screenhsot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/861733993514123697/F0691E6594A417573F555CD13E8FB8EB48C0233A/

Shadow Hunters: there are 3 variants of them currently: #1. pure infantry, #2. Skirmisher, #3. Crossbowman. This is too much, there's no troop placement/tactic that would let the player use them to their full potential. Making them like Fierdsvain Heavy Skirmishers would help by at least making them all behave as ranged units

Guarantee 'ranged'

Empire Mortal: a Legionnaire clone but much harder to get. His ranged attack could have a bigger impact to the battle

Broad_Head_Throwing_Spears (2x) -> Old_Empire_Light_Pila (1x) (highest chance to get a throwing weapon is achieved by having only one instance)

Increase the use of Old Empire Light Pila and Old Empire Pila among the more potent empire units by replacing their current throwing weapons:

Empire Immortal: Broad_Head_Throwing_Spears (4x) -> Old_Empire_Light_Pila (4x)
Shadow Legion Centurion: Broad_Head_Throwing_Spears -> Old_Empire_Pila
Iron Circle Centurion: Throwing_Spears -> Old_Empire_Light_Pila

Doomguide:

Torbah_Desert_Shield -> Netherworld_Shield (looks cool and she deserves this shield)

Possessed Doomguide: just like the Azi Dahaka version of Serpent Priestesses, they could be stronger than regular Doomguides

Torbah_Desert_Shield -> Netherworld_Shield (looks cool and she deserves this shield)
Level: 40 -> 60 (to justify the buff)
Proficiencies: 400 -> 500
Strength skills: 7-6-6-6 -> 9-8-8-8
Agility skills: 5-6-7-7 -> 6-7-7-9

The resulting entry:

trp_poss_doomguide Possessed_Doomguide Possessed_Doomguides 0 66061442 0 0 41 0 0
  1149 0 787 0 1120 0 187 0 843 0 1248 0 1248 0 1458 0 127 0 125 0 695 0 677 0 132 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  57 23 23 9 60
 500 500 500 500 500 500 0
306 1610940416 2415919104 26231 624768 0 
  4 3584 0 0 41859162115 4092 0 0 


Fallen Warrior:

Guarantee 'helmet' (for further differentiation from the rest of Fallen troops)

Zulkar's Grim Rider: they have Darkwood Bows, with a Power Draw requirement of 6. With their current setup, they suffer from a heavy accuracy penalty. Plus a unique spawn's household troop could be better

Level: 40 -> 45 (to justify the buff)
Proficiencies: 350 -> 400
Strength skills: 7-6-6-6 -> 9-8-8-8
Agility skills: 5-6-7-7 -> 6-7-7-9

The resulting entry:

trp_zulkar_guard Zulkar's_Grim_Rider Zulkar's_Grim_Riders 0 133170176 0 0 37 0 0
  1147 0 1120 0 700 0 777 0 663 0 1448 0 206 0 920 0 920 0 1290 0 1379 0 127 0 125 0 128 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  24 15 12 15 45
 400 400 400 400 400 400 0
306 1610940416 2415919104 26231 624768 0 
  33437049097 2337368206605287424 1867847 0 48301674957 7890302010022882286 2095999 0 


Jatu Lancer: they lack any sidearms, have only lances which is bad for close quarters or sieges. Once dehorsed or stopped, they are dead. They could receive a mediocre sidearm

Add 1x Jatu_Sabre

Increase the running capability of Mettenheim backbone infantry units. For a faction that despise horses this much, they gotta be better at running. Also, changes are to increase the challenge a bit when you face Obrist Heynrich or Mettenheim Expeditionary Forces:

Mettenheim Greatsword: Athletics 7->8
Mettenheim Spieszknecht: Athletics 7->8
Mettenheim Hauptmann: Athletics 7->9
Mettenheim Forlorn Hope: Athletics 7->10

Barclay Balestra:

Bastard_Sword -> Long_Steel_Sword (replace shitty 1h/2h sword (penalty with shields) with a proper 1h sword)

Barclay Imperial Chevalier: a bit more different weapon setup from Barclay Imperial Lancier

Heavy_Lance -> Great_Lance
Silver_Great_Claymore -> Silvered_Longsword (also, for better survivability)

Veccavi Knight: give her a visually more fitting, and rarely used horse

Well-bred Hunter -> White_Caparisoned_Hunter
Cropped Mane Hunter -> White_Caparisoned_Hunter

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/949582948900611466/C6D6C7073D8B4A7569E115DA61559CA0C34C233A/

Melitine Imperial Guard: give them rarely used weapons which look better, and adjust their skills to maintain performance in order to not make them OP

Strength skills: 10-9-9-9 -> 9-8-8-8
Melee profs: 450 -> 420
Throwing prof: 350 -> 400
Northern_Battle_Axe -> Desert_Battle_Axe
Add 1x Desert_War_Axe
Add 1x Steel_Mace

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/860614032584505027/4EB73D50AD6F6D82478191DA55862C2132D6E920/ And the resulting entry:

trp_melitine_shock_infantry Melitine_Imperial_Guard Melitine_Imperial_Guards 0 49283072 0 0 32 0 0
  413 0 845 0 746 0 699 0 1168 0 1168 0 1327 0 1328 0 1188 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 30 12 15 47
 420 420 420 100 100 400 0
338 2147942400 2415919104 38519 624768 0 
  18404614147 1441151880758558720 1867840 0 50465891015 7916447985573822463 2031036 0 


Noldor Maiden Ranger:

Add 1x Noldor_Steppe_Pony (unused item, to increase variety)

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/911296978240492640/3F090E8AD5A785C8F729FCF40BA4CC0CE6A5C213/

Heroine Adventurer: remove bad crossbow for mounted combat to justify the upgrade from lvl 35 compared to Hero Adventurers, who are easier to train and don't get crossbows. For the same reason, lower the level of Heroine Adventurers to make them a "harder to get, but more worthwhile to keep" unit

Level: 60 -> 50
Remove Maiden_Crossbow
Remove Siege_Bolts

Cleric: redesign and buff Inquisition troops to be credible at fighting with the D'Shar, Noldor, Jatu, Heretics, Snake Cult, Windriders, Scorpion Assassins and Eventide (their enemies). Clerics are nothing special compared to Monks, so they could be the shock infantry unit for the Inquisition. Sort of what War Priests are currently.

Strength skills: 5-4-4-4 -> 6-5-5-5
Agility skills: 3-4-3-5 -> 4-5-4-6
delete everything from his inventory
Add 1x White_Hood
Add 1x Lamellar_Vest
Add 1x Iron_Gauntlets
Add 2x Dark_Leather_Gloves
Add 1x Plate_Boots
Add 1x Sledgehammer
Add 1x Polehammer (for variety and against cavalry)

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1456302674913277860/78DFE5E4384DB674DC24DB0805A6C45386EA1BDE/ And the resulting entry:

trp_pendorian_cleric Cleric Clerics 0 15728640 0 0 1 210 211
  1102 0 405 0 716 0 701 0 701 0 760 0 1301 0 1187 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  18 21 6 6 28
 245 245 245 245 245 245 0
274 537133056 1610612736 17492 415056 0 
  1 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 68702720518 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 


War Priest: become a solid infantry unit with shield and anti-cavalry blunt weapon

Strength skills: 6-5-5-5 -> 7-6-6-6
Agility skills: 4-5-4-6 -> 5-6-5-7
Guarantee 'shield'
delete everything from his inventory
Add 1x Visored_Steel_Helm
Add 1x Armet_with_Plume
Add 1x Armet_with_Plume_-_Open
Add 2x Burnished_Heavy_Armor
Add 1x White_Plate_Harness
Add 1x Shynbaulds
Add 1x Hourglass_Gauntlets
Add 1x Steel_Gauntlets
Add 1x Warhammer
Add 1x Blunt_Steel_Polehammer
Add 1x Sage_Shield (only used by some NPC-s)

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1456302674913278473/61803F359D8BADAFE509022DA4C4A2C5D9AFBC7B/ And the resulting entry:

trp_pendorian_warpriest War_Priest War_Priests 0 49283072 0 0 1 212 0
  980 0 851 0 853 0 439 0 439 0 468 0 766 0 710 0 715 0 1251 0 1405 0 1461 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  21 24 9 9 38
 295 295 295 295 295 295 0
290 1610940416 1879048192 21861 484960 0 
  1 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 68702720518 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 


Battle Brother: become a deadly crossbowmen with better armor

Guarantee 'ranged'
Dark_Hood -> Bascinet_with_Aventail (less dark/evil, rarely used helm)
Add 1x Bascinet_with_Aventail
Add 1x Cap_&_Chain_Helm
Add 1x Guard_Helmet
Dark_Chain_Coat -> Cuir_Bouilli (unused armor and less dark/evil, more "brothery" with brown leather)
Black_Greaves -> Polished_Steel_Boots (less dark)
Add 1x Iron_Gauntlets
Add 1x Dark_Leather_Gloves
Add 1x Siege_Crossbow
Add 2x Heavy_Crossbow (for variety)
Add 1x Siege_Bolts
Add 1x Steel_Bolts

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1456302674913278312/A8D83EA339D7B54B91C5F52C1D219F068F493FCE/ And the resulting entry:

trp_pendorian_battle Battle_Brother Battle_Brothers 0 116391936 0 0 1 0 0
  847 0 847 0 841 0 855 0 701 0 1247 0 1515 0 416 0 770 0 716 0 701 0 1134 0 1133 0 1133 0 1155 0 1154 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  27 27 12 15 40
 320 320 320 320 320 320 0
306 1610940416 1879048192 25957 484960 0 
  1 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 68702720518 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 


Inquisitor: become a merciless tank, a riding disaster, fitting to a true inquisitor

Guarantee 'shield'
Guarantee 'horse'
Add 1x Cavalry_Mace (for variety, faster weapon with shield or when dueling)
Add 1x Ancient_Engraved_Shield
Add 1x Imperial_Silver_Stallion

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1456302674913278122/3A3C595BEA6E8DAD74BD6E6173304AFA7590622B/ And the resulting entry:

trp_pendorian_righteous Inquisitor Inquisitors 0 66060288 0 0 1 0 0
  487 0 717 0 783 0 1305 0 1011 0 1012 0 1017 0 1018 0 488 0 1011 0 1012 0 1017 0 1018 0 487 0 1245 0 1552 0 205 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  32 35 12 15 45
 350 350 350 350 350 350 0
322 1879441408 2147483648 30070 554864 0 
  1 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 68702720518 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 


Omen Seeker: these girls die so easily, but cost a lot to get from ransom brokers. Some unguaranteed shields could help their survival: around 1/3 will have one

Add 1x Engraved_Round_Shield
Unguarantee 'shield'

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/911296978240492494/8AF51EDD5EB738284BA71378F07D38DD1E1B1CF0/

Brigand:

Add 1x Cyan_Hood (unused item, to increase variety)

Bandit lair leaders: they could become common troops as well to expand on the respective minor faction troops and to increase troop variety in general. But for that first, adjustments are needed as follows:

Heretic High Priest (trp_heretic_lair_leader)
Rename to Heretic_Battle_Priest(s)
Level: 20 -> 40
Add 2x Dark_Chain_Coat
Add 2x Flat_Topped_Helmet (unguaranteed)
Add 1x Guard_Helmet (unguaranteed)
Add 2x Mail_Boots
Add 1x Mail_Mittens
Add 1x Cavalry_Mace
Add 2x Heretic_Heater_Shield
Add 1x Heretic_Battle_Shield

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1005936288667145872/63ED15A3E3245391FBC4BCE58AC91020CA7EAB6C/ And the resulting entry:

trp_heretic_lair_leader Heretic_Battle_Priest Heretic_Battle_Priests 0 45121536 0 0 2 0 0
  759 0 581 0 128 0 128 0 1304 0 1519 0 698 0 108 0 104 0 422 0 422 0 838 0 838 0 855 0 755 0 755 0 696 0 1245 0 1519 0 1519 0 1467 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  57 3 6 3 40
 300 300 300 300 300 300 0
322 1879441408 2147483648 30070 554864 0 
  17179869185 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 68702720518 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 

Mystmountain Raiding Chief
Level: 20 -> 45
Throwing proficiency: 50 -> 350
Guarantee 'shield'
Add 1x Bearclaw_Shield
Add 1x Fierdsvain_War_Axe
Add 1x Great_Long_Axe
Add 2x Heavy_Throwing_Axes

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1005936288667146052/704DC95CC228588B19C2E6406B24834ADD13584A/ And the resulting entry:

trp_myst_lair_leader Mystmountain_Raiding_Chief Mystmountain_Raiding_Chiefs 0 49315840 0 0 2 0 0
  862 0 713 0 603 0 749 0 128 0 128 0 1317 0 111 0 120 0 1548 0 1279 0 1322 0 1176 0 1176 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  30 30 12 15 45
 350 350 350 50 50 350 0
338 2147942400 0 34464 559360 0 
  17179869185 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 54744064780 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 

Singalian Vidona (trp_singal_lair_leader)
Level: 31 -> 40
Guarantee 'horse'
Archery proficiency: 290 -> 360
Strength skills: 7-6-6-6 -> 8-7-7-7
Riding: 5 -> 7
Splinted_Leather_Greaves -> Soft_Soled_Ornate_Greaves
Leather_Gloves -> Lamellar_Gauntlets
Add 2x Dark_Leather_Gloves
Add 2x Golden_Plate_Armor
Add 2x Torbah_Mask_Helm
Add 2x Singalian_Death_Sabre
Round_D'Shar_Cross_Shield -> Embossed_Round_Shield
Add 3x Engraved_Round_Shield
D'Shar_Bow -> Hornbow
Add 1x Superior_D'Shar_Arrows
Add 1x D'Shar_Arrows
Add 2x D'Shar_Courser
Add 2x Well-bred_Hunter
Add 1x D'Shar_Armored_Hunter

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1005936288667145539/AF8B85EF1F83C904E6FD24BB7A03C2616BF0A7B4/ And the resulting entry:

trp_singal_lair_leader Singalian_Vidona Singalian_Vidonas 0 133201922 0 0 2 0 0
  1144 0 128 0 128 0 757 0 699 0 657 0 1268 0 1440 0 1119 0 909 0 89 0 102 0 701 0 701 0 652 0 652 0 895 0 895 0 1267 0 1267 0 1436 0 1436 0 1436 0 1145 0 1144 0 172 0 172 0 187 0 187 0 199 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  21 21 9 9 40
 290 290 290 360 290 290 0
306 1610940416 1879048192 25959 554864 0 
  4 3584 0 0 41859162115 4092 0 0 

Vanskerry Leader: in memoriam of Fierdsvain archers (R.I.P.)
Level: 31 -> 40
Guarantee 'ranged'
One_Handed_Battle_Axe -> One_Handed_Veteran_Axe
Add 1x Vanskerry_Short_War_Sword
Add 1x Two_Handed_War_Axe
Javelins -> Long_Composite_Bow
Add 1x Arrows
Add 1x Barbed_Arrows
Add 1x Dark_Strapped_Studded_Leather_Hauberk
Add 1x Dark_Leather_Greaves
Leather_Gloves -> Dark_Leather_Gloves
Add 1x Mail_Mittens
Add 2x Vanskerry_Raider_Shield
Add 1x Vanskerry_Helmet

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1005936288673651365/CC802E0172145841908B6748076DA54B390A7211/ And the resulting entry:

trp_vanskerry_lair_leader Vanskerry_Leader Vanskerry_Leaders 0 116424704 0 0 2 0 0
  1236 0 1114 0 541 0 747 0 128 0 128 0 701 0 1441 0 1434 0 864 0 106 0 117 0 1275 0 1314 0 1138 0 1139 0 429 0 746 0 696 0 1441 0 1441 0 837 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  26 16 9 9 40
 350 350 350 350 350 350 0
64 1879441408 2147483648 30070 554864 0 
  34359738369 1315051091194281984 1835136 0 53435441928 5615707260354297855 2031609 0 

Snake_Cult_Leader (trp_snake_lair_leader)
Level: 31 -> 60
Guarantee 'shield'
Add 1x Snake_Mask_Helmet
Priestess_Snake_Armor -> High_Priestess_Snake_Armor
Light_Crossbow -> Heavy_Crossbow
Light_Bolts -> Steel_Bolts
Add 1x Balanced_Bolts
Add 2x Embossed_Serpent_Shield
Leather_Gloves -> Dark_Leather_Gloves
Add 2x Snake_Gloves

Screenshot: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/1005936288673651148/24021FF2C948B6B5E35EDB7936094FA3A444B6DE/ And the resulting entry:

trp_snake_lair_leader Snake_Cult_Leader Snake_Cult_Leaders 0 116424706 0 0 2 0 0
  671 0 128 0 128 0 1133 0 1154 0 1535 0 1325 0 1284 0 786 0 701 0 96 0 113 0 114 0 1096 0 1153 0 1453 0 1453 0 705 0 705 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  26 16 9 9 60
 330 330 330 330 330 330 0
338 2147876864 2415919104 34422 624768 0 
  4 3584 0 0 41859162115 4092 0 0 


Tweak 17 r)

Troop Testing Script - credits to Leonion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

For those who like testing different troops against each other, here is a simple assisting script that should really help you with testing and save you a lot of time in the end.

File: menus.txt

1) Find this piece:

 mno_camp_cheat_find_item  0  Find_an_item


2) And replace it with this:

 mno_camp_tts3  0  Give_troops.  3 1100 2 648518346341351424 576460752303423494 1617 1 72057594037927936 2043 2 1 72057594037927936  .  mno_camp_tts1  0  Get_50_troops.  5 1617 1 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639735 360287970189640099 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774912 50 3 0 2043 2 1 648518346341351425  .  mno_camp_tts2  0  Get_100_troops.  5 1617 1 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639735 360287970189640099 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774912 100 3 0 2043 2 1 648518346341351425  .  mno_camp_cheat_find_item  0  Find_an_item


Make sure that there is exactly 1 gap at the very beginning of the line.

3) Next, have a look at the line above (starting with menu_camp_cheat), and increase the submenu counter at the end of it by 3 (12 -> 15 in case of PoP).

4) In case of other mods, you'll need to adjust the above pieces as follows, in order to find them or have a correct replacement. Otherwise skip this step! So, replace:

576460752303423494 (point 2) with the number you got for: 576460752303423488 + № of pt_looters template from party_templates.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189639735 360287970189640099 (point 2), 2 instances) troop range with that of the first troop available for testing from the lower end, and to that of the troop after the last troop available for testing from the upper end. The set values have to correspond to this formula: 360287970189639680 + № of a troop from troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

5) Now, start the game with cheats enabled and bring up the "cheatmenu". Once inside the cheatmenu, at the very top you will see 3 options:

Give troops
Get 50 troops
Get 100 troops

The latter two are virtually the same, only the quantity differs. Try one of them and choose any troops you want for yourself and for your future enemy. Take both stacks into your party. If the amount is not enough, then use these two options again. Then use the first option. With it, give the troops you want to your future opponent.

6) You can leave the camp menu. If you've done things correctly, you should see a band of "outlaws" nearby. Now you can start the testing. If the enemy party did not appear, then it's likely that you started a new game. Just wait for a few in-game hours, and the script will start working.

Tweak 17 s)

To add damage reduction for NPCs and their horses (also applicable for the player with the alternative adjustment) - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Increase the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 1 under the following sections of your choice to where you want to add this tweak:

mst_lead_charge - field battles (66 -> 67)
mst_castle_attack_walls_defenders_sally - sally-outs (56 -> 57)
mst_castle_attack_walls_belfry - siege tower sieges (42 -> 43)
mst_castle_attack_walls_ladder - ladder sieges (37 -> 38)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_town_center - siege offense continuation in courtyard (21 -> 22)
mst_besiege_inner_battle_castle - siege offense continuation in castle hall (21 -> 22)
mst_sneak_caught_fight - when you get caught while trying to sneak into a walled fief (13 -> 14)
mst_bandits_at_night - night ambushes (9 -> 10)
mst_village_raid - village fights (27 -> 28)
mst_village_attack_bandits - bandit infestations (24 -> 25)
mst_bandit_lair - bandit lairs (19 -> 20)
mst_grandmaster_ambush - ambush in castle hall that starts the grandmaster quest (10 -> 11)
mst_back_alley_revolt - the revolt of the townsfolk that may happen while collecting taxes (11 -> 12)
mst_duel_with_lord - when you chalenge a lord to a duel (6 -> 7)

2) Right after the aforementioned counters, add one of the following triggers in form of a new line for the mission templates of your choice.

For only NPCs (horses untouched):

-28.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  11 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2073 1 1224979098644774913 1700 1 1224979098644774914 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 1507 1 1224979098644774915 2108 2 1224979098644774913 5 3 0 2075 1 1224979098644774913


For NPCs and their horses:

-28.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  21 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2073 1 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 1700 1 1224979098644774915 4 0 1704 1 1224979098644774912 1718 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1507 1 1224979098644774916 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 5 0 1715 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 30 2 1224979098644774917 0 1718 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774917 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774915 1507 1 1224979098644774918 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 1 2108 2 1224979098644774913 5 2075 1 1224979098644774913


The highlighted 5 is the damage divider. Set it to any integer number you'd like.

3) Alternatively, you can adjust the above tweak to apply to your character as well. For that to happen, in case of:

the player character only (horse untouched): reduce the 11 by 2 (11 -> 9)
the player character and his horse: reduce the 21 by 3 (21 -> 18)

Then delete the parts in blue. Make sure that only 1 gap remains at the place of the removed parts.

Tweak 17 t)

To change the thresholds for becoming wounded

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

If you, your companions or your vassals have less than 5 or 15 hp respectively by default, then you/they are unable to join a battle and the party skill contribution is gone too as a result. It's your health at the end of the previous round that gets taken into account for the next round to determine if your party skills contribute or not. Meaning for instance that if you got knocked out, and you don't have a companion with First Aid, then things like Surgery won't play an effect from your character for the next round. As soon as you heal above, everything returns to normal and your party skills give a bonus again. However, there is a catch. You always get a portion of your hp back after the first round, regardless if you have First Aid in your party or not. During this "second chance", you'll still count as wounded and your party skills won't have an effect, despite that you can actually continue fighting for that round. Unlike in case of NPCs (companions, vassals, etc.), who don't get this second chance.

Overall, there's many uses for this tweak, just to name a few:

affect how long your party skills can have an effect
change how long your companions can contribute with their party skills
control how long unique spawn leaders, vassals and kings can stay active and how fast they can heal back from battles

File: module.ini

1) Open module.ini and find these two entries:

player_wounded_treshold = 5
hero_wounded_treshold = 15


2) The first threshold is for your character, while the second is for companions, vassals, kings, unique spawn leaders. Changing these values to your liking! 0 for instance will enable your/their party skill contribution and appearance in battles all the time.

Tweak 17 u)

To change the amount of Noldor troops you get for a Qualis Gem from Quigfen and Arandur - credits to VonDegurechaff

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for the following lines depending on the scenario you want to edit:

Quigfen without Noldor Trade Goods:

dlga_quigfen_warrior_gem:quigfen_warrior_choose 66622 1190  4 150 1 288230376151711870 2147483798 1 288230376151711871 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2133 2 72057594037927960 1224979098644774912 Yes,_I_have_Qualis_Gem_(and_space_for_{reg24}_units).  1191  43 2133 2 72057594037927961 12 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927961 2133 2 72057594037927961 72057594037927960 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927962 10 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927962 2133 2 72057594037927962 72057594037927960 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927963 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927963 8 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927963 2133 2 72057594037927963 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927964 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927964 5 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927964 2133 2 72057594037927964 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927965 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927965 3 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927965 2133 2 72057594037927965 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


The above numbers are the amount of Noldor units you get:

12 - Noldor Warrior
10 - Noldor Ranger
8 - Noldor Maiden Ranger
5 - Noldor Noble
3 - Noldor Twilight Knight

Quigfen with Noldor Trade Goods:

dlga_quigfen_warrior_gem:quigfen_warrior_choose.1 66622 1190  4 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711871 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2133 2 72057594037927960 1224979098644774912 Yes,_I_have_Qualis_Gem_and_this_beautiful_vase_(and_space_for_{reg24}_units).  1191  43 2133 2 72057594037927961 15 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927961 2133 2 72057594037927961 72057594037927960 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927962 12 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927962 2133 2 72057594037927962 72057594037927960 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927963 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927963 10 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927963 2133 2 72057594037927963 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927964 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927964 6 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927964 2133 2 72057594037927964 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927965 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927965 4 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927965 2133 2 72057594037927965 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


The above numbers are the amount of Noldor units you get:

15 - Noldor Warrior
12 - Noldor Ranger
10 - Noldor Maiden Ranger
6 - Noldor Noble
4 - Noldor Twilight Knight

Arandur without Noldor Trade Goods:

dlga_recruiter_warrior_gem:recruiter_warrior_choose 66626 1836  4 150 1 288230376151711870 2147483798 1 288230376151711871 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2133 2 72057594037927960 1224979098644774912 Yes,_I_have_Qualis_Gem_(and_space_for_{reg24}_units).  1837  43 2133 2 72057594037927961 15 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927961 2133 2 72057594037927961 72057594037927960 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927962 12 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927962 2133 2 72057594037927962 72057594037927960 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927963 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927963 10 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927963 2133 2 72057594037927963 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927964 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927964 6 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927964 2133 2 72057594037927964 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927965 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927965 4 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927965 2133 2 72057594037927965 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


The above numbers are the amount of Noldor units you get:

15 - Noldor Warrior
12 - Noldor Ranger
10 - Noldor Maiden Ranger
6 - Noldor Noble
4 - Noldor Twilight Knight

Arandur with Noldor Trade Goods:

dlga_recruiter_warrior_gem:recruiter_warrior_choose.1 66626 1836  4 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711871 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2133 2 72057594037927960 1224979098644774912 Yes,_I_have_Qualis_Gem_and_this_beautiful_vase_(and_space_for_{reg24}_units).  1837  43 2133 2 72057594037927961 18 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927961 2133 2 72057594037927961 72057594037927960 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927962 15 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927962 2133 2 72057594037927962 72057594037927960 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927963 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927963 12 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927963 2133 2 72057594037927963 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927964 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927964 7 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927964 2133 2 72057594037927964 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 2136 3 1224979098644774912 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 2133 2 72057594037927965 0 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927965 5 4 0 2147483678 2 72057594037927960 72057594037927965 2133 2 72057594037927965 72057594037927960 3 0 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


The above numbers are the amount of Noldor units you get:

18 - Noldor Warrior
15 - Noldor Ranger
12 - Noldor Maiden Ranger
7 - Noldor Noble
5 - Noldor Twilight Knight

2) Change the highlighted values above to your liking.

Tweak 17 v)

To edit the chances, kind, and amount of troops you can get from slave traders - credits to VonDegurechaff

Ransom brokers may offer you some troops to hire upon asking for rumors or upon gambling. If you got lucky, then the game takes a random number between 0 and 100 (the first red numbers down below), which will determine the kind of unit you'll get. For example, if the number was between 0 and 5, then some Bearclaw Berserkers will be offered to you. The amount of troops offered varies between preset ranges (min-max).

Files:

conversation.txt
(quick_strings.txt)

1) For regular ransom brokers (Red Brotherhood agents), open conversation.txt and find this line:

dlga_ransom_broker_post_rumor_bonus_troops:ransom_broker_post_rumor_bonus_troop_response 4095 1204  138 2133 2 1224979098644774912 125 2133 2 1224979098644774913 130 2136 3 1224979098644774914 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 5 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639910 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 5 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417442 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 10 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639791 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 5 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417443 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 20 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639999 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 5 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417444 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 30 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639756 2136 3 1224979098644774915 15 20 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417445 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 40 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189640045 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 12 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417446 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 45 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639762 2136 3 1224979098644774915 2 8 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417447 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 50 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639747 2136 3 1224979098644774915 4 12 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417448 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 60 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639761 2136 3 1224979098644774915 15 20 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417449 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 70 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639760 2136 3 1224979098644774915 15 20 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417450 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 80 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639939 2136 3 1224979098644774915 2 4 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417451 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 90 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639746 2136 3 1224979098644774915 4 12 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417452 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 95 2136 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189640008 360287970189640027 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640013 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 648518346341351504 6 3 1224979098644774919 648518346341351446 1224979098644774918 521 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774919 289 31 2 1224979098644774920 360287970189640013 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 648518346341351446 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640009 3 0 3 0 2322 2 1 1224979098644774916 2133 2 72057594037927944 1224979098644774916 2136 3 1224979098644774915 1 3 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417453 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774914 97 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639941 2136 3 1224979098644774915 1 2 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417454 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639921 2136 3 1224979098644774915 2 4 2133 2 72057594037927943 1224979098644774915 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927944 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 2122 3 72057594037927977 1224979098644774915 72057594037927936 2320 2 3 1585267068834417455 3 0 1633 2 1224979098644774921 648518346341351424 2133 2 72057594037927978 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774921 2133 2 72057594037927978 1 3 0 {s3}_  1205  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


The above colored numbers mean the following:

Red numbers - percentage / chance
Blue numbers - troop ID number
Orange numbers - range of acquirable troop amount (min - max)

And the bolded parts above indicate the chances, troops and amount respectively:

5 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639910 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 5


5% -- Bearclaw Berserker -- 3-5

10 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639791 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 5


5% -- Ravenstern Highlander -- 3-5

20 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639999 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 5


10% -- Omen Seeker -- 3-5

30 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639756 2136 3 1224979098644774915 15 20


10% -- Melitine Free Brother -- 15-20

40 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189640045 2136 3 1224979098644774915 3 12


10% -- Refugee -- 3-12

45 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639762 2136 3 1224979098644774915 2 8


5% -- Maiden Scout -- 2-8

50 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639747 2136 3 1224979098644774915 4 12


5% -- Singalian Spearman -- 4-12

60 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639761 2136 3 1224979098644774915 15 20


10% -- Barclay Aventurero -- 15-20

70 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639760 2136 3 1224979098644774915 15 20


10% -- Mettenheim Avonteurer -- 15-20

80 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639939 2136 3 1224979098644774915 2 4


10% -- Rogue Blackheart Squire -- 2-4

90 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639746 2136 3 1224979098644774915 4 12


10% -- Bounty Hunter -- 4-12

95 2136 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189640008 360287970189640027 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640013 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 648518346341351504 6 3 1224979098644774919 648518346341351446 1224979098644774918 521 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774919 289 31 2 1224979098644774920 360287970189640013 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 648518346341351446 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 360287970189640009 3 0 3 0 2322 2 1 1224979098644774916 2133 2 72057594037927944 1224979098644774916 2136 3 1224979098644774915 1 3


5% -- random KO knight (troop range) -- 1-3

97 2133 2 72057594037927944 360287970189639941 2136 3 1224979098644774915 1 2


2% -- Noldor Ranger -- 1-2

360287970189639922 2136 3 1224979098644774915 2 4


3% (remaining) -- Maiden Adventurer -- 2-4

Change the above values to your liking. For the kind of troop, open up the Troops Editor within Morgh's Editor, find the entry number of the unit of your choice (Noldor Ranger is #261), then add this number to the "troop constant" which is 360287970189639680 and put the resulting number into place of any blue number. Make sure that all chance ranges are covered (have a troop to give), and that they are within the default maximum value found at the start (100 currently). Lastly, if you want, you can adjust the specific conversation lines in quick_strings.txt which you get during the offer, so that they accomodate to your changes. These conversations can be found within lines 2852-2865 ("qstr__The_Goddess_of_Fate" - "qstr__It_has_been_my_misf"), in the same order as the above code fragments.

2) For Ramun the slave trader, open conversation.txt and find this line:

dlga_ramun_casino_2:ramun_casino_3 448 110  70 2133 2 72057594037927971 -1 2133 2 72057594037927972 -1 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 30 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 35 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640000 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 40 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639864 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 45 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639832 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 50 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640092 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 55 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639886 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 60 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639942 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 68 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639776 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 76 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639822 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 84 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639902 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 92 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639970 5 0 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639917 3 0 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857281 60 2119 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075857280 3 2105 2 1224979098644774912 2 2112 3 1224979098644774912 2 5 5 0 2119 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075857280 4 2105 2 1224979098644774912 3 2112 3 1224979098644774912 3 7 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927972 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 72057594037927971 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1000 5 0 1 4 936748722493063908 72057594037927971 125 100 2122 3 1224979098644774913 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 3 0 2119 3 1224979098644774914 144115188075857278 31 2113 1 1224979098644774914 2105 2 1224979098644774914 0 2112 3 1224979098644774914 0 31 2133 2 1224979098644774915 144115188075857278 2113 1 1224979098644774915 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 50 2121 3 1224979098644774914 100 1224979098644774914 5 0 2120 3 1224979098644774914 100 1224979098644774914 3 0 2107 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774914 2108 2 1224979098644774913 100 2133 2 72057594037927973 1224979098644774913 The_stakes_are_this:_I_will_sell_you_peculiar_slaves_from_parts_of_Pendor_for_{reg37}_denars._Otherwise,_I_will_take_your_gambled_coin._^^Shall_we_begin_..._or_you_going_to_turn_tail_and_run?  111  0 NO_VOICEOVER


The above colored numbers mean the following:

Red numbers - percentage / chance
Blue numbers - troop ID number
Orange numbers - range of acquirable troop amount {min - (max+1)}

And the bolded parts above indicate the chances, troops and amount respectively:

144115188075857281 30 5 0


30% chance to get nothing

35 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640000


35% - 30% = 5% -- Iron Circle Centurion -- 2 - (5-1)

40 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639864


40% - 35% = 5% -- Guardian Empire Knight -- 2 - (5-1)

45 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639832


45% - 40% = 5% -- Valdis Huscarl -- 2 - (5-1)

50 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189640092


50% - 45% = 5% -- Veccavi Uncut -- 2 - (5-1)

55 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639886


55% - 50% = 5% -- Iceguard Ranger -- 2 - (5-1)

60 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639942


60% - 55% = 5% -- Noldor Hunter -- 2 - (5-1)

68 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639776


68% - 60% = 8% -- Marleons Heavy Cavalry -- 3 - (7-1)

76 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639822


76% - 68% = 8% -- D'Shar Djaha Archer -- 3 - (7-1)

84 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639902


84% - 76% = 8% -- D'Shar Deathwind Savaran -- 3 - (7-1)

92 2133 2 72057594037927971 360287970189639970


92% - 84% = 8% -- Red Fletcher Longbowman -- 3 - (7-1)

360287970189639918


100% - 92% = 8% (remaining) -- Queen Agnus Freebooter -- 3 - (7-1)

Change the above values to your liking. For the kind of troop, open up the Troops Editor within Morgh's Editor, find the entry number of the unit of your choice (Knight of the Unicorn is #406), then add this number to the "troop constant" which is 360287970189639680 and put the resulting number into place of any blue number (e.g. in place of Queen Agnus Freebooters, who are acquirable by other means too, unlike Knights of the Unicorn). Also, make sure that all chance ranges are covered (have a troop to give).

Tweak 17 w)

To add a Mettenheim NPC to the tavern of Valonbray who will offer Mettenheim troops and arms weekly - credits to BananaFruit

This tweak will add a Mettenheim captain and merchant in one person to the tavern of Valonbray, who goes by the name Mauritz van Mettenheim III. He will sell you Mettenheim troops (a must for a Mettenheim-only playthrough!), as well as Mettenheim gear, and will replenish his stocks every week. This tweak is savegame-compatible, but Mauritz will be naked if you apply this tweak to an already existing game. Note that during the first week upon creating a new game or adding him in, no items and no troops will be offered. You will have to wait 1 week for the first shipment to arrive. The quality and the amount of troops + items offered will increase with your level.

Files:

troops.txt
simple_triggers.txt
scripts.txt
dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open troops.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (1203 -> 1204), and add the following entry (multiple lines) to the very end of the file, separated by 1 empty line from the last entry:

trp_mauritz_mett Mauritz_van_Mettenheim_III Mauritz 0 11538448 0 0 30 0 0
  712 0 763 0 494 0 1360 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  22 18 12 15 15
 300 300 100 100 150 150 0
48 1342832644 80 24675 417792 0 
  55448735876 4241139290604419291 1946841 0 0 0 0 0 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Now open simple_triggers.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line by 1 (133 -> 134), and add the following to the very bottom of the file, as a new line:

168.000000  553 520 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 7 2136 3 1224979098644774913 5000 15000 1528 2 360287970189640883 1224979098644774913 1532 1 360287970189640883 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712599 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712580 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712564 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712582 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712311 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712499 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713254 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713261 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712456 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1500 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712507 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 2500 30 2 144115188075856162 100 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712238 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 2000 30 2 144115188075856162 50 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712221 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1500 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712737 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 2000 30 2 144115188075856162 50 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712676 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712233 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712508 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712627 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712651 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712624 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 25 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 27 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 29 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712234 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712877 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 2 30 2 1224979098644774912 2500 30 2 144115188075856162 150 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 10 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712879 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712937 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712964 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713138 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712987 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713148 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713140 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713141 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713085 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1500 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 30 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713103 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 2 30 2 1224979098644774912 2500 30 2 144115188075856162 150 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 25 2133 2 1224979098644774915 18 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 15 2133 2 1224979098644774915 19 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 5 2133 2 1224979098644774915 17 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151713104 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 500 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 20 2133 2 1224979098644774915 42 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712898 1224979098644774915 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 0 3 30 2 1224979098644774912 1500 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 2136 3 1224979098644774916 0 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774916 20 2133 2 1224979098644774915 42 3 0 1530 3 360287970189640883 288230376151712900 1224979098644774915 3 0 1511 1 360287970189640883 520 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640883 71 520 3 1224979098644774918 360287970189640883 72 520 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189640883 73 520 3 1224979098644774920 360287970189640883 74 520 3 1224979098644774921 360287970189640883 75 520 3 1224979098644774922 360287970189640883 76 520 3 1224979098644774923 360287970189640883 77 520 3 1224979098644774924 360287970189640883 78 2105 2 1224979098644774917 15 2123 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774912 30 2110 2 1224979098644774925 35 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774925 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 500 2121 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774912 433 2108 2 1224979098644774925 67 2110 2 1224979098644774925 10 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774925 2107 2 1224979098644774925 2 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774925 3 0 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2121 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774912 800 2108 2 1224979098644774925 200 2110 2 1224979098644774925 7 2105 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774925 2107 2 1224979098644774925 2 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774925 3 0 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 1500 30 2 144115188075856162 50 2121 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774912 1200 2108 2 1224979098644774925 300 2110 2 1224979098644774925 5 2105 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774925 2107 2 1224979098644774925 2 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774925 3 0 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774912 2000 30 2 144115188075856162 100 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774925 30 2 1224979098644774912 3000 30 2 144115188075856162 150 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774925 30 2 1224979098644774912 4000 30 2 144115188075856162 200 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774925 30 2 1224979098644774912 5000 30 2 144115188075856162 300 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1 2136 3 1224979098644774925 0 2 2105 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774925 3 0 2112 3 1224979098644774917 0 101 2112 3 1224979098644774918 0 81 2112 3 1224979098644774919 0 81 2112 3 1224979098644774920 0 61 2112 3 1224979098644774921 0 61 2112 3 1224979098644774922 0 51 2112 3 1224979098644774923 0 51 2112 3 1224979098644774924 0 31 500 3 360287970189640883 71 1224979098644774917 500 3 360287970189640883 72 1224979098644774918 500 3 360287970189640883 73 1224979098644774919 500 3 360287970189640883 74 1224979098644774920 500 3 360287970189640883 75 1224979098644774921 500 3 360287970189640883 76 1224979098644774922 500 3 360287970189640883 77 1224979098644774923 500 3 360287970189640883 78 1224979098644774924


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Next, open scripts.txt, find the script called update_booksellers, and replace everything in its body with this:

16 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 501 3 1224979098644774912 98 0 3 0 501 3 648518346341351454 98 360287970189640178 6 3 1224979098644774913 360287970189640176 360287970189640179 2147483679 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189640178 2133 2 1224979098644774914 1000 6 3 1224979098644774915 0 1224979098644774914 2136 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 541 3 1224979098644774912 98 0 501 3 1224979098644774912 98 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774914 0 3 0 3 0 501 3 648518346341351449 98 360287970189640766 501 3 648518346341351447 98 360287970189640883


4) Then, open dialog_states.txt and add the following 9 entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

mauritz_first_encounter
mauritz_introduction
mauritz_intro_player_response
mauritz_welcoming
mauritz_options
mauritz_offer_soldiers
mauritz_buy_soldiers
mauritz_item_shop
mauritz_quest_denial


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind and make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

5) Lastly, open conversation.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 23 (4152 -> 4175), then find this line:

dlga_tavernkeeper_talk:close_window 69631 1151  0 I_guess_I_should_leave_now.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER


6) Add the following 23 lines right after it, as a new line each:

dlga_start:mauritz_intro 1203 0  1 31 2 144115188075855902 0 Hail_from_Mettenheim_my_{reg63?Lord:Lady}!_To_what_do_I_owe_your_interest?  1874  1 500 3 144115188075855892 5 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_mauritz_intro:mauritz_intro_2 69631 1874  0 Who_are_you,_and_where_is_this_"Mettenheim"_you_are_talking_about?  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_mauritz_intro_2:mauritz_intro_3_talk 4095 1875  0 I_am_Mauritz_van_Mettenheim_III,_great_grandson_of_the_glorious_Mauritz_van_Mettenheim._I_hail_from_the_nation_of_Mettenheim,_located_on_the_island_Aysenburg_far_from_Pendor.^^Let_me_tell_you,_there_are_many_brave_men_from_Mettenheim_looking_for_adventures_in_the_ranks_of_renowned_and_honorable_leaders.  1876  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_mauritz_intro_3_talk:mauritz_process_1 69631 1876  0 Very_interesting._I_might_use_their_help_sometime.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_greetings 1203 0  1 31 2 144115188075855902 1 Hail_{playername}!  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_greetings 1203 1877  0 How_can_I_help_you?  1878  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_go 69631 1878  0 I_need_to_go_now.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers 69631 1878  0 I_am_interested_in_Mettenheim_soldiers.  1879  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_arms 69631 1878  0 I_am_interested_in_Mettenheim_Arms_and_Armor.  1881  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_quests 69631 1878  0 Is_there_anything_I_can_do_to_help_the_Mettenheim?  1882  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_offer 1203 1879  8 520 3 72057594037927936 144115188075855892 71 520 3 72057594037927937 144115188075855892 72 520 3 72057594037927938 144115188075855892 73 520 3 72057594037927939 144115188075855892 74 520 3 72057594037927940 144115188075855892 75 520 3 72057594037927941 144115188075855892 76 520 3 72057594037927942 144115188075855892 77 520 3 72057594037927943 144115188075855892 78 Very_good_my_{reg63?Lord:Lady},_the_following_troops_are_ready_to_join_you.^^{reg0}_Mettenheim_Avonteurer^{reg1}_Mettenheim_Regular_Infantry^{reg2}_Mettenheim_Regular_Crossbow^{reg3}_Mettenheim_Greatsword^{reg4}_Mettenheim_Spieszknecht^{reg5}_Mettenheim_Hauptmann^{reg6}_Mettenheim_Heavy_Crossbow^{reg7}_Mettenheim_Forlorn_hope  1880  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_no_room 69631 1880  2 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2147483680 2 1224979098644774912 0 Sounds_good,_but_I_have_no_room_in_my_party.  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_never_mind 69631 1880  2 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 Never_mind.  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_avonteurer 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 100 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 71 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Avonteurer_(100_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 100 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 71 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 71 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189639760 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_infantry 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 200 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 72 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Regular_Infantry_(200_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 200 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 72 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 72 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189639958 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_regxbow 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 250 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 73 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Regular_Crossbow_(250_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 250 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 73 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 73 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189639959 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_greatsword 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 500 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 74 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Greatsword_(500_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 500 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 74 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 74 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189639961 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_knecht 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 300 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 75 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Spieszknecht_(300_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 300 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 75 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 75 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189640091 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_hauptmann 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 750 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 76 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Hauptmann_(750_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 750 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 76 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 76 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189639962 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_heavyxbow 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 500 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 77 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Heavy_Crossbow_(500_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 500 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 77 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 77 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189639960 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_forlorn_hope 69631 1880  6 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 2149 2 1224979098644774913 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774913 1000 520 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075855892 78 30 2 1224979098644774913 1 I_wish_to_hire_one_Mettenheim_Forlorn_Hope_(1000_denars).  1879  5 1529 2 360287970189639680 1000 520 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 78 2106 2 1224979098644774912 1 500 3 144115188075855892 78 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189639963 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_soldiers_offer 1203 1881  0 Very_good_my_{reg63?Lord:Lady},_this_is_all_I_have_to_offer._Remember_that_I_am_supplied_by_new_Mettenheim_shipments_each_week.  1877  1 2042 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_start:mauritz_quest_no 1203 1882  0 No.  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER


7) Make sure that the 1203 in the 6 lines above correspond to Mauritz's troop sequence number seen in Morgh's Editor (line 1, 5, 6, 11, 22 & 23). And also, that the highlighted black numbers in each line match the value range calculated in point 4) (1874 to 1882 by default). Lastly, check if the following troop ID matches with the given formula down below. It is only needed to check these things if you added something else to troops.txt or dialog_states.txt respectively due to another tweak. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (line 1 & 2) with the number you got for mauritz_first_encounter
1875 (line 2 & 3) with the number you got for mauritz_introduction
1876 (line 3 & 4) with the number you got for mauritz_intro_player_response
1877 (line 5, 6, 12, 13, 22 & 23) with the number you got for mauritz_welcoming
1878 (line 6, 7, 8, 9 & 10) with the number you got for mauritz_options
1879 (line 8, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 & 21) with the number you got for mauritz_offer_soldiers
1880 (line 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 & 21) with the number you got for mauritz_buy_soldiers
1881 (line 9 & 22) with the number you got for mauritz_item_shop
1882 (line 10 & 23) with the number you got for mauritz_quest_denial
360287970189640883 (point 2), 53 instances; point 3) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_mauritz_mett (Mauritz van Mettenheim III) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Tweak 17 x)

To get the location of all bandit lairs from Brother Randalf - credits to Dalion

Brother Randalf becomes kinda useless after buying all the books you need and the map to the hidden mines of Al-Aziz. But strangely, the option to ask for his location from travelers still remains in the game. Now you will always have a reason to! With this tweak, after buying the map for the mines, he will be able to reveal every bandit lair's location on the world map. The locations won't update themselves though, remember that. So if you feel like new lairs could've spawned since your last talk, then go find him again and he will reveal those as well.

Files:

quick_strings.txt
conversation.txt

1) In quick_strings.txt find these two strings:

qstr_I_have_already_shown I_have_already_shown_you_the_location_of_the_mines_of_Al-Aziz,_there_is_nothing_else_I_have_to_trade_to_you_besides_my_books!

qstr_Oh!_Yes_that_s_right Oh!_Yes,_that's_right._Too_much_strong_drink_has_affected_my_memory._Who_are_you_again?


2) And replace them respectively with these two:

qstr_I_have_already_shown I_have_already_shown_you_the_location_of_the_mines_of_Al-Aziz,_but_it_is_not_the_only_hidden_place._You_see,_brigands_usually_tend_to_set_up_lairs,_where_they_store_all_their_stolen_goods_and_gather_their_forces_for_upcoming_raids._These_places_are_made_to_be_well_hidden_from_common_sight,_not_to_mention_that_they_are_well-guarded._But_if_you_are_interested,_for_a_humble_sum_of_300_denars,_I_can_show_you_the_location_of_some_that_I_happened_to_notice_during_my_travels.

qstr_I_cannot_afford_that I_cannot_afford_that_at_the_moment._Maybe_next_time.


3) Then, open conversation.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153), and find the line that starts with:

dlga_azziz_map_trade:book_trade_completed


4) Add this right after the whole entry, as a new line:

dlga_azziz_map_trade:book_trade_completed.1 69631 1271  3 132 1 648518346341351594 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 30 2 1224979098644774912 1000 I'm_not_afraid_of_any_brigands._Show_me.  1270  8 11 1 1224979098644774912 521 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 18 1603 3 1224979098644774912 256 0 1603 3 1224979098644774912 16384 1 1231 1 1224979098644774912 3 0 1529 2 360287970189639680 1000 NO_VOICEOVER 


5) Lastly, find this line:

dlga_azziz_map_trade:special_fail 69631 1271  9 4 0 132 1 648518346341351594 2320 2 5 1585267068834417468 5 0 2147483798 1 288230376151711875 2320 2 5 1585267068834417469 5 0 2320 2 5 1585267068834417470 3 0 {s5}  1272  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


6) And replace it with this:

dlga_azziz_map_trade:special_fail 69631 1271  12 4 0 132 1 648518346341351594 2149 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 1000 2320 2 5 1585267068834417468 5 0 2147483798 1 288230376151711875 2147483780 1 648518346341351594 2320 2 5 1585267068834417469 5 0 2320 2 5 1585267068834417470 3 0 {s5}  1272  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


7) The 3 highlighted pieces of 1000 (2 in point 4, and 1 in point 6) are the price, expressed in denars. Change them if you want.

Tweak 17 y)

To add 2 eligible-to-wed Noldor ladies to Elacrai - credits to Countyboar

This tweak requires a new game to work properly!

The two Noldor ladies will act almost identically to regular ladies, but they can't be taken by other suitors and you automatically have permission to visit them. Also, you don't have to pay a dowry for marrying them. The protector (father) of Iranith is set to be Sadren, and the protector (father) of Elasai is Calanon. As an extra feature, you'll be able to ask your Noldor wife for Noldor troops once every week (for free). The offered troops will be as follows:

1-5 Noldor Hunter(s) in 65% of times
1-5 Noldor Maiden Ranger(s) in 25% of times
1-5 Noldor Twilight Knight(s) in 10% of times

Files:

troops.txt
scripts.txt
menus.txt
simple_triggers.txt
conversation.txt
dialog_states.txt
variables.txt

1) Open troops.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 2 (1203 -> 1205), and add the following entries to the end of the file, separated by 1 empty line from the last entry:

trp_noldor_lady_1 Iranith Iranith 0 18 0 0 64 0 0
  682 0 777 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  39 36 18 24 55
 400 400 400 400 400 400 0
338 2147942400 2415919232 38527 694672 0 
  4 3584 0 0 0 0 0 0 

trp_noldor_lady_2 Elasai Elasai 0 18 0 0 64 0 0
  682 0 777 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  39 36 18 24 55
 400 400 400 400 400 400 0
338 2147942400 2415919232 38527 694672 0 
  185602049 3795 0 0 0 0 0 0 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Next, open scripts.txt, increase the counter at the beginning of the initialize_aristocracy script by 20 (151 -> 171), and find this piece:

1 3 936748722493063704 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2133 2 72057594037927939 144115188075856146 1106 1 1585267068834414880 3 0 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640416 1106 1 1585267068834414881 2055 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640310 360287970189640315 500 3 1224979098644774912 2 9 2136 3 1224979098644774913 25 30 500 3 1224979098644774912 18 1224979098644774913 500 3 1224979098644774912 19 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640314 500 3 1224979098644774912 18 45 500 3 1224979098644774912 19 45 3 0 


Replace it with this:

4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640279 500 3 1224979098644774912 52 6 3 0 1 3 936748722493063704 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774913 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2133 2 72057594037927939 144115188075856146 1106 1 1585267068834414880 3 0 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640416 1106 1 1585267068834414881 2055 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640310 360287970189640315 500 3 1224979098644774912 2 9 2136 3 1224979098644774913 25 30 500 3 1224979098644774912 18 1224979098644774913 500 3 1224979098644774912 19 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640314 500 3 1224979098644774912 18 45 500 3 1224979098644774912 19 45 3 0 500 3 360287970189640883 2 6 500 3 360287970189640883 52 25 500 3 360287970189640883 31 360287970189640767 500 3 360287970189640883 5 1 500 3 360287970189640883 30 -1 500 3 360287970189640883 12 648518346341351600 500 3 360287970189640767 38 1 500 3 360287970189640883 8 -1 500 3 360287970189640884 2 6 500 3 360287970189640884 52 22 500 3 360287970189640884 31 360287970189640768 500 3 360287970189640884 5 1 500 3 360287970189640884 30 -1 500 3 360287970189640884 12 648518346341351600 500 3 360287970189640768 38 1 500 3 360287970189640884 8 -1 


Make sure that there is exactly 1 space to the left and right of the replacement!

3) Then, increase the counter at the beginning of the enter_court script by 8 (210 -> 218) and find this piece:

1263 2 7 1224979098644774915 521 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 293 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1263 2 11 1224979098644774917 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 16 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351600 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640767 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640768 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640769 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640770 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2


Replace it with this:

1263 2 7 1224979098644774915 521 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 293 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1263 2 11 1224979098644774917 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 16 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351600 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640767 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640768 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640769 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640770 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 4 0 2147484188 3 360287970189639680 30 360287970189640883 1263 2 19 360287970189640883 3 0 4 0 2147484188 3 360287970189639680 30 360287970189640884 1263 2 30 360287970189640884 3 0


Make sure that there is exactly 1 space to the left and right of the replacement!

4) Now find the script called enter_court_castle and replace its whole body with this:

193 21 1 1224979098644774912 2133 2 144115188075856070 1 1911 1 792633534417207303 1941 2 792633534417207303 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 11 1261 1 1224979098644774913 1262 0 2204 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 522 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 49 521 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 289 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 3 0 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774915 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639737 3 0 1263 2 6 1224979098644774915 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 33 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189640008 360287970189640028 2121 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 360287970189640008 2105 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640065 3 0 1263 2 7 1224979098644774915 521 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 293 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1263 2 31 1224979098644774917 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 16 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351600 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640767 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640768 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640769 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640770 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351601 546 3 504403158265495619 11 6 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640875 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640876 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640877 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 3 0 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189639680 30 1073741855 2 1224979098644774919 360287970189640883 31 2 1224979098644774919 360287970189640884 540 3 1224979098644774919 12 1224979098644774912 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 32 2 144115188075855960 0 2147484188 3 360287970189639680 30 144115188075855960 1263 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075855960 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 542 3 1224979098644774914 11 360287970189639680 6 3 1224979098644774920 360287970189640185 360287970189640315 2173 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567630 540 3 1224979098644774920 2 0 2147484208 3 1224979098644774920 8 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 144115188075855960 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774920 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 3 0 1 3 936748722493063393 1224979098644774912 648518346341351425 1650 2 1224979098644774922 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774922 1652 3 1224979098644774924 648518346341351425 1224979098644774923 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 32 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 2147483679 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 540 3 1224979098644774925 12 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 1073742364 3 360287970189639680 30 1224979098644774925 1073742364 3 360287970189639680 34 1224979098644774925 1073742364 3 1224979098644774925 30 360287970189639680 540 3 1224979098644774925 34 360287970189639680 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787459 3 0 5 0 2173 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774925 2147483679 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787460 3 0 5 0 560 3 1224979098644774925 30 1 4 0 542 3 1224979098644774914 4 6 542 3 1224979098644774914 5 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787461 3 0 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787462 3 0 3 0 5 0 542 3 1224979098644774914 4 6 542 3 1224979098644774914 5 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415057 3 0 5 0 560 3 1224979098644774925 5 2 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415058 3 0 5 0 1 2 936748722493063701 1224979098644774925 1 3 936748722493063717 72057594037927936 360287970189639680 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415059 3 0 5 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415060 3 0 3 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 32 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 4 0 200 1 504403158265495614 3221226014 3 1224979098644774914 4 6 2147484190 3 1224979098644774914 5 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147483850 1 504403158265495614 2147483851 1 504403158265495614 546 3 504403158265495614 1 144115188075856143 1263 2 30 360287970189640763 526 3 1224979098644774928 504403158265495614 11 33 3 1224979098644774928 0 4 1263 2 15 360287970189640764 1263 2 31 360287970189640765 1911 1 792633534417207304 5 0 546 3 504403158265495614 1 144115188075856143 1263 2 31 360287970189640765 3 0 3 0 1912 1 0 1910 1 1224979098644774913 503 3 1224979098644774913 0 1 2048 0 


Watch for the gap at the beginning!

5) Next, increase the counter at the beginning of the script called player_join_faction by 2 (110 -> 112), and find this piece:

520 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189639680 30 33 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 360287970189640416


Replace it with this:

520 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189639680 30 1073741857 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640883 31 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640884


6) Increase the counter found in the 2nd line of scripts.txt by 1 (754 -> 755), then add the following piece to the end of the file, as two new lines:

noldor_setup_meet_lady -1
 11 21 1 1224979098644774912 500 3 1224979098644774912 38 360287970189639680 1911 1 792633534417207302 1261 1 720575940379279813 1262 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 16 1263 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2133 2 144115188075856070 16 1910 1 720575940379279813 503 3 720575940379279813 0 1 2048 0 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

7) Now open menus.txt and find this piece of code:

2040 0 3 0 6


Increase that 6 - a submenu counter - by 1 (6 -> 7), then find this piece below:

To_the_castle_courtyard.  mno_castle_attack_surprise


Replace it with this:

To_the_castle_courtyard.  mno_visit_lady  36 2147484208 3 360287970189639680 30 360287970189640315 2133 2 144115188075856263 0 2133 2 144115188075856264 0 4 0 540 3 360287970189640883 12 144115188075856143 1 2 936748722493063701 360287970189640883 2133 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 540 3 360287970189640883 30 -1 30 2 1224979098644774912 0 560 3 360287970189640883 5 2 2147484188 3 360287970189640883 5 4 4 0 31 2 144115188075856263 0 2133 2 144115188075856263 360287970189640883 5 0 31 2 144115188075856264 0 2133 2 144115188075856264 360287970189640883 3 0 3 0 4 0 540 3 360287970189640884 12 144115188075856143 1 2 936748722493063701 360287970189640884 2133 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 540 3 360287970189640884 30 -1 30 2 1224979098644774912 0 560 3 360287970189640884 5 2 2147484188 3 360287970189640884 5 4 4 0 31 2 144115188075856263 0 2133 2 144115188075856263 360287970189640884 5 0 31 2 144115188075856264 0 2133 2 144115188075856264 360287970189640884 3 0 3 0 32 2 144115188075856263 0  Attempt_to_visit_a_lady.  1 2060 1 864691128455135551  Door_to_the_garden  mno_castle_attack_surprise


Watch for the gaps!

8) Also, find this piece in menus.txt:

20 2031 1 1441151880758558845 2124 1 100 729 2 0 65 730 2 0 30 731 2 0 170 2032 3 1729382256910270506 432345564227567630 0 372 1 52 601 1 1657324662872342666 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 2147483678 2 144115188075856292 648518346341351446 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774913 432345564227567630 2133 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 30 33 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416


And replace it with this:

22 2031 1 1441151880758558845 2124 1 100 729 2 0 65 730 2 0 30 731 2 0 170 2032 3 1729382256910270506 432345564227567630 0 372 1 52 601 1 1657324662872342666 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 2147483678 2 144115188075856292 648518346341351446 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774913 432345564227567630 2133 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 30 1073741857 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640883 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640884


9) Next, increase the counter at the beginning of the menu called menu_notification_court_lost by 4 (54 -> 58), and find this piece:

33 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 500 3 1224979098644774914 12 144115188075856292 2330 2 11 144115188075856292 3 0 2320 2 14 216172782113788050 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 31 2 144115188075856292 -1 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774913 432345564227567630 2133 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 30 33 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416


Replace it with this:

1073741857 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640883 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640884 500 3 1224979098644774914 12 144115188075856292 2330 2 11 144115188075856292 3 0 2320 2 14 216172782113788050 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 31 2 144115188075856292 -1 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 31 2 1224979098644774913 432345564227567630 2133 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 30 1073741857 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640883 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640884


10) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 2 (319 -> 321), and add these two menus to the end of the file, as 4 new lines:

menu_noldor_lady_visit 4096 Whom_do_you_wish_to_visit? none 1 2031 1 1441151880758558805 3
 mno_visit_lady_1  2 32 2 144115188075856263 0 2322 2 12 144115188075856263  Visit_{s12}  2 2133 2 144115188075856263 144115188075856263 2060 1 864691128455135552  .  mno_visit_lady_2  2 32 2 144115188075856264 0 2322 2 12 144115188075856264  Visit_{s12}  2 2133 2 144115188075856263 144115188075856264 2060 1 864691128455135552  .  mno_leave  0  Leave.  1 2060 1 864691128455135376  . 
menu_noldor_garden 4096 {s12} none 49 2031 1 1441151880758558805 1 2 936748722493063701 144115188075856263 2133 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927936 2322 2 11 144115188075856263 2133 2 144115188075856295 0 4 0 540 3 1224979098644774912 38 1 2320 2 12 216172782113788066 5 0 1 3 936748722493063696 360287970189639680 144115188075856263 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 4 0 200 1 504403158265495594 546 3 504403158265495594 6 144115188075856263 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 5 0 200 1 504403158265495595 546 3 504403158265495595 6 144115188075856263 1073742026 1 504403158265495595 203 1 504403158265495595 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 5 0 200 1 504403158265495578 546 3 504403158265495578 6 144115188075856263 1073742026 1 504403158265495578 203 1 504403158265495578 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 4 0 2270 1 1224979098644774914 520 3 1224979098644774915 144115188075856263 4 2106 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774915 1073741854 2 1224979098644774914 96 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 4 0 33 3 144115188075856280 648518346341351446 648518346341351464 2320 2 12 216172782113788067 2133 2 144115188075856295 1 5 0 2320 2 12 216172782113788068 2133 2 144115188075856295 2 3 0 5 0 2320 2 12 216172782113788069 3 0 5 0 2320 2 12 216172782113788070 3 0 4
 mno_enter  2 1 2 936748722493063701 144115188075856263 540 3 72057594037927936 38 1  Enter.  2 2060 1 864691128455135376 1 2 936748722493063922 144115188075856263  .  mno_nurse_go  1 31 2 144115188075856295 1  Go_with_the_nurse.  2 2060 1 864691128455135376 1 2 936748722493063922 144115188075856263  .  mno_nurse_wait  1 31 2 144115188075856295 2  Wait_by_the_spring.  2 2060 1 864691128455135376 1 2 936748722493063922 144115188075856263  .  mno_leave  0  Leave.  1 2060 1 864691128455135376  . 


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end of the file!

11) Open simple_triggers.txt and find this trigger:

4.000000  6 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 2147484208 3 1224979098644774912 8 0 1 2 936748722493063701 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774913 72057594037927937 500 3 1224979098644774912 12 1224979098644774913 3 0 


Replace it with this:

4.000000  15 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 2147484208 3 1224979098644774912 8 0 1 2 936748722493063701 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774913 72057594037927937 500 3 1224979098644774912 12 1224979098644774913 3 0 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 30 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640883 31 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640884 2147484208 3 1224979098644774914 8 0 1 2 936748722493063701 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774913 72057594037927937 500 3 1224979098644774914 12 1224979098644774913 3 0 


12) Next, find this trigger:

24.000000  28 4 0 2147483848 1 504403158265495594 2147484208 3 360287970189639680 8 1 2147484208 3 360287970189639680 30 360287970189640185 2133 2 1224979098644774912 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 120 6 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 560 3 1224979098644774914 5 2 2147484188 3 1224979098644774914 5 4 540 3 1224979098644774914 37 0 540 3 1224979098644774914 30 -1 520 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 12 33 3 1224979098644774915 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 1 3 936748722493063696 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 32 2 72057594037927936 1 2270 1 1224979098644774916 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 4 2106 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774917 32 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774915 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 1 4 936748722493063464 864691128455135491 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774918 3 0 3 0 


And replace it with this:

24.000000  64 4 0 2147483848 1 504403158265495594 2147484208 3 360287970189639680 8 1 2147484208 3 360287970189639680 30 360287970189640185 2133 2 1224979098644774912 -1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 120 6 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 560 3 1224979098644774914 5 2 2147484188 3 1224979098644774914 5 4 540 3 1224979098644774914 37 0 540 3 1224979098644774914 30 -1 520 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 12 33 3 1224979098644774915 648518346341351446 648518346341351504 1 3 936748722493063696 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 32 2 72057594037927936 1 2270 1 1224979098644774916 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 4 2106 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774917 32 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774915 3 0 4 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640883 560 3 1224979098644774914 5 2 2147484188 3 1224979098644774914 5 4 540 3 1224979098644774914 37 0 540 3 1224979098644774914 30 -1 520 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 12 31 2 1224979098644774915 648518346341351600 1 3 936748722493063696 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 32 2 72057594037927936 1 2270 1 1224979098644774916 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 4 2106 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774917 32 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774915 3 0 4 0 2133 2 1224979098644774914 360287970189640884 560 3 1224979098644774914 5 2 2147484188 3 1224979098644774914 5 4 540 3 1224979098644774914 37 0 540 3 1224979098644774914 30 -1 520 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 12 31 2 1224979098644774915 648518346341351600 1 3 936748722493063696 360287970189639680 1224979098644774914 32 2 72057594037927936 1 2270 1 1224979098644774916 520 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774914 4 2106 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774917 32 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774915 3 0 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 1 4 936748722493063464 864691128455135491 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774918 3 0 3 0 


13) Locate the trigger beginning with:

168.000000  214


Increase that operation counter by 1 (214 -> 215). Then find this piece in its body:

2133 2 144115188075857279 1 2133 2 144115188075857286 1


And replace it with this:

2133 2 144115188075857279 1 2133 2 144115188075857286 1 2133 2 144115188075857320 1


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains before and after the replacement!

14) Then, open conversation.txt and find these pieces:

dlga_minister_issues:minister_talk.1 4095 149  1 2147483681 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416

dlga_minister_talk:combined_political_quests 69631 273  1 33 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416

dlga_minister_talk:minister_diplomatic_kingdoms 69631 273  1 33 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416

dlga_minister_talk:minister_indict 69631 273  1 33 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416

dlga_minister_talk:minister_grant_fief 69631 273  1 33 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416

dlga_minister_talk:minister_grant_self_fief 69631 273  18 33 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416

dlga_lady_relations:lady_pretalk 4095 929  31 2320 2 12 216172782113788309 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640185 360287970189640416 1 3 936748722493063502 144115188075855892 1224979098644774914 1073741856 2 72057594037927936 5 541 3 144115188075856280 7 1224979098644774914 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2322 2 14 1224979098644774914 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 1 2320 2 12 216172782113788310 3 0 2320 2 12 216172782113788311 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 7 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 12 216172782113788310 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 0 542 3 144115188075855894 4 6 542 3 144115188075855894 5 144115188075856280 2320 2 12 216172782113788313 5


Replace them respectively with these:

dlga_minister_issues:minister_talk.1 4095 149  3 2147483679 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640883 2147483679 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640884 2147483681 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416

dlga_minister_talk:combined_political_quests 69631 273  3 1073741857 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640883 31 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640884

dlga_minister_talk:minister_diplomatic_kingdoms 69631 273  3 1073741857 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640883 31 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640884

dlga_minister_talk:minister_indict 69631 273  3 1073741857 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640883 31 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640884

dlga_minister_talk:minister_grant_fief 69631 273  3 1073741857 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640883 31 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640884

dlga_minister_talk:minister_grant_self_fief 69631 273  20 1073741857 3 144115188075855960 360287970189640185 360287970189640416 1073741855 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640883 31 2 144115188075855960 360287970189640884

dlga_lady_relations:lady_pretalk 4095 929  41 2320 2 12 216172782113788309 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 6 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189640185 360287970189640416 1 3 936748722493063502 144115188075855892 1224979098644774914 1073741856 2 72057594037927936 5 541 3 144115188075856280 7 1224979098644774914 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2322 2 14 1224979098644774914 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 1 2320 2 12 216172782113788310 3 0 2320 2 12 216172782113788311 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1 4 0 541 3 144115188075856280 7 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774913 1 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 2320 2 12 216172782113788310 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 0 542 3 144115188075855894 4 6 542 3 144115188075855894 5 144115188075856280 2320 2 12 216172782113788313 5 0 1 3 936748722493063502 144115188075855892 360287970189640767 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2322 2 14 360287970189640767 2320 2 12 216172782113788311 5 0 1 3 936748722493063502 144115188075855892 360287970189640768 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2322 2 14 360287970189640768 2320 2 12 216172782113788311 5


Watch for the gaps, so that there is only 1 after the replacements!

15) Next, find the line that starts with dlga_start:noldor_player_response.1 and after it, add this in form of a new line:

dlga_noldor_player_response:noldor_grant_marriage_permission 66623 136  3 200 1 504403158265495595 526 3 1224979098644774912 504403158265495595 6 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640883 I_have_come_to_ask_for_your_daughter's_hand_in_marriage.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


16) Then, find the line that starts with dlga_start:merchant_process_2.1 and after it, add this in form of a new line:

dlga_merchant_process_2:noldor_grant_marriage_permission 66624 1825  3 200 1 504403158265495595 526 3 1224979098644774912 504403158265495595 6 31 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640884 I_have_come_to_ask_for_your_daughter's_hand_in_marriage.  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


17) Also, find the line that starts with dlga_hat_issue:spouse_pretalk.1 and after it, add this in form of a new line:

dlga_spouse_talk:noldor_wife_reinforcements_send 69631 583  3 31 2 144115188075857320 1 1073741855 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640883 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640884 Would_your_father_be_willing_to_send_us_some_troops?  1876  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


18) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of conversation.txt by 9 (4152 -> 4161), then add these 6 lines to the end of the file, as a new line each:

dlga_noldor_grant_marriage_permission:close_window 4095 1874  1 2147483680 2 144115188075856294 0 I_can_not_allow_this.__While_you_have_won_the_hearts_of_our_people,_among_your_own_you_lack_property.__The_Noldor_are_so_few_in_number_that_I_would_only_give_away_my_daughter_to_a_human_who_can_give_her_a_home.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_grant_marriage_permission:noldor_wedding_start 4095 1874  2 32 2 144115188075856294 0 2330 2 24 648518346341351600 You_two_may_now_consider_yourselves_offically_betrothed._And_why_wait?__Though_the_circumstances_unprecendented,_this_event_surely_is_one_of_significance._Let_us_have_a_great_feast_here_in_{s24}_and_carry_out_the_ceremony.  1875  17 526 3 1224979098644774912 504403158265495595 6 500 3 360287970189639680 34 1224979098644774912 500 3 1224979098644774912 34 360287970189639680 1 2 936748722493063560 504403158265495595 2322 2 3 1224979098644774912 2322 2 4 144115188075855892 2330 2 5 648518346341351600 1290 1 504403158265495597 2320 2 2 216172782113788253 1 3 936748722493063555 504403158265495597 144115188075855892 506 3 504403158265495597 23 365 506 3 504403158265495597 6 144115188075855892 506 3 504403158265495597 2 1224979098644774912 4 0 31 2 144115188075856070 2 2133 2 144115188075855935 1 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_wedding_start:wedding_ceremony_bride_vow 4095 1875  6 200 1 504403158265495597 546 3 504403158265495597 6 144115188075855892 526 3 1224979098644774912 504403158265495597 2 540 3 1224979098644774912 12 144115188075856280 1 3 936748722493063502 1224979098644774912 144115188075855892 2322 2 4 1224979098644774912 May_the_heavens_witness_that_I_am_ready_to_give_you_my_{s11}_{s4},_to_have_in_marriage...  440  1 526 3 144115188075855981 504403158265495597 2 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_wife_reinforcements_send:noldor_wife_reinforcements_confirm 4095 1876  20 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857280 65 2133 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639942 5 0 2147483678 2 144115188075857280 90 2133 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639944 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639946 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927971 1224979098644774912 2119 3 1224979098644774913 144115188075857281 5 2105 2 1224979098644774913 1 2112 3 1224979098644774913 1 6 2133 2 72057594037927972 1224979098644774913 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 1 2322 2 0 1224979098644774912 5 0 2323 2 0 1224979098644774912 3 0 My_father_can_spare_{reg36}_{s0}.__Would_you_like_them_to_join_you_now?  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_wife_reinforcements_confirm:spouse_pretalk 69631 1877  2 1633 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 30 2 1224979098644774912 72057594037927972 Yes,_send_them_out_now.  869  3 2133 2 144115188075857320 0 1610 3 648518346341351424 72057594037927971 72057594037927972 1105 1 1585267068834417359 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_wife_reinforcements_confirm:spouse_pretalk.1 69631 1877  0 No,_not_right_now.  869  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

19) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following 4 entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

noldor_grant_marriage_permission
noldor_wedding_start
noldor_wife_reinforcements_send
noldor_wife_reinforcements_confirm


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind and make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

20) Open variables.txt and add this entry to the end of the file, as a new line:

noldor_wife_reinforcements


Make sure to still have an empty line at the very end!

21) Lastly, make sure that the highlighted dialog_state numbers from point 15), 16), 17) & 18) match the values calculated in point 19) and that the following IDs match with the formulas down below. It is only needed to check them if you added something else to dialog_states.txt, troops.txt, menus.txt, scripts.txt and variables.txt respectively, due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (point 15); point 16); point 18), line 1 & 2) with the number you got for noldor_grant_marriage_permission
1875 (point 18), line 2 & 3) with the number you got for noldor_wedding_start
1876 (point 17); point 18), line 4) with the number you got for noldor_wife_reinforcements_send
1877 (point 18), line 4, 5 & 6) with the number you got for noldor_wife_reinforcements_confirm
360287970189640883 (point 2), 7 instances; point 3), 2 instances; point 4); point 5); point 7), 7 instances; point 8); point 9), 2 instances; point 11); point 12); point 14) 1 instance in each piece except for 7th; point 15); point 17) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_noldor_lady_1 (Iranith) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640884 (point 2), 7 instances; point 3), 2 instances; point 4); point 5); point 7), 7 instances; point 8); point 9), 2 instances; point 11); point 12); point 14, 1 instance in each piece except for 7th; point 16); point 17) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_noldor_lady_2 (Elasai) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
864691128455135551 (menus.txt, in point 7) with the number you got for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_noldor_lady_visit menu from point 10 (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
864691128455135552 (menus.txt, in point 10), 2 instances) with the number you got for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_noldor_garden menu from point 10 (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063922 (scripts.txt, in point 10), 2nd menu, 3 instances): 936748722493063168 + № of noldor_setup_meet_lady script from point 6 (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
144115188075857320 (point 13); point 17); point 18), line 5) with the number you get for: 144115188075855871 + № of noldor_wife_reinforcements in variables.txt from point 20 (line number in Notepad++)

Tweak 17 z)

To add a potential Noldor husband to Elacrai - credits to Countyboar

This tweak requires a new game to work properly!

The Noldor lord (Ilaedanir) added will marry you if you are a lady or a queen (won't marry anyone else) and will join your party as a non-losable permanent companion upon doing so, appearing in any castle hall you visit. He will have the standard husband dialogues (political quests, host feasts, manage household possessions, etc.) but none of the companion-specific options (you can't offer vassalage, can't dismiss him, nor take his equipment or send him to gather RtR, train your CKO, etc.) His stats and equipment are the following:

Level 55, 400 weapon proficiencies
39 STR, 36 AGI, 18 INT, 24 CHA
10 IF, 9 PS, 9 PT, 9 PD, 9 Weapon Master, 6 Shield, 7 Athletics, 15 Riding, 9 Horse Archery, 8 Trainer, 8 Tactics, 2 Trade
Noldor_Knight_Helm, Noldor_Noble_Armor, Noldor_Leather_Ornate_Gloves, Noldor_Enchanted_Boots, Noldor_Noble_Shield, Noldor_Goldleaf_Warhorse, Noldor_Composite_Bow, Noldor_Arrows, Noldor_Arrows, Noldor_Runesword

Files:

troops.txt
dialog_states.txt
conversation.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open troops.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (1203 -> 1204), and add the following entry to the end of the file, separated by 1 empty line from the last entry:

trp_noldor_husband_1 Ilaedanir Ilaedanir 0 20 0 0 64 0 0
  728 0 777 0 1433 0 232 0 1121 0 1150 0 1150 0 1209 0 686 0 1082 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 0 
  39 36 18 24 55
 400 400 400 400 400 400 0
338 2147942400 2415919232 38527 694672 0 
  7465873413 5467616895044264534 1843512 0 0 0 0 0 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

2) Open dialog_states.txt and add the following 4 entries to the end of the file as a new line each:

noldor_husband_talk_1
noldor_husband_talk_2
noldor_husband_talk_3
noldor_husband_talk_4


Look at the serial numbers of the lines you added and subtract 1 from each. Keep them in mind and make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) Open conversation.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 8 (4152 -> 4160). Then find the line that starts with dlga_start:companion_comment and to BEFORE it, add the following lines as a new line each:

dlga_start:noldor_husband_talk_1 66739 0  0 Hello,_sir_elf.__What_is_your_place_in_the_court_here?  1874  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_husband_talk_1:close_window 1203 1874  1 31 2 144115188075856152 0 I_attend_to_affairs_more_important_than_talking_to_some_boorish_man.__Be_on_your_way.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_husband_talk_1:noldor_husband_talk_2 1203 1874  0 Truth_be_told,_my_days_here_are_spent_watching_our_people_waste_away_while_your_kind_pushes_farther_into_our_forests_by_the_year.__What_I_wouldn't_give_to_take_arms_against_your_kind's_kings.__But_such_an_action_would_just_incite_further_violence_against_my_people.  1875  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_husband_talk_2:noldor_husband_talk_3 66739 1875  0 What_if_you_were_to_join_my_company,_and_fight_in_my_name?__As_a_proven_friend_of_the_Noldor,_I_assure_you_that_we'll_have_the_fight_your_kind's_enemies.__My_reputation_would_lend_you_legitimacy_in_your_actions.  1876  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_husband_talk_3:noldor_husband_talk_4 1203 1876  1 32 2 144115188075856294 0 Well..._as_a_noble_lady_among_your_people_it_might_work.__But_we_can_take_this_a_step_further,_if_we_were_wed_then_our_association_would_have_even_greater_legitimacy.__So,_how_about_it?  1877  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_husband_talk_3:close_window 1203 1876  0 Your_reputation?__A_friend_of_the_Noldor_you_may_be,_but_to_your_own_people_you_are_just_a_mercenary.__I'd_not_want_to_further_your_kind's_image_of_mine_as_savage_raiders.__But_if_you_held_higher_standing_among_your_kind,_perhaps_this_arrangement_could_work.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_husband_talk_4:close_window 66739 1877  0 I_accept.  6  4 500 3 360287970189640883 2 2 1550 2 360287970189640883 144115188075856294 1610 3 648518346341351424 360287970189640883 1 1 4 936748722493063710 360287970189639680 144115188075855892 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_noldor_husband_talk_4:close_window.1 66739 1877  0 This_is_too_brazen_for_me.__Perhaps_another_time.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


4) Then, find this piece:

dlga_center_captured_rebellion:center_captured_rebellion_2 81919 39  14 50 1 1224979098644774912 540 3 1224979098644774912 2 2 2147483679 2 144115188075855892 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774912


And replace it with this:

dlga_center_captured_rebellion:center_captured_rebellion_2 81919 39  15 50 1 1224979098644774912 540 3 1224979098644774912 2 2 2147483679 2 144115188075855892 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 360287970189640883 1224979098644774912


5), Also, find the line starting with dlga_member_chat:member_talk and increase the operation counter at the beginning of its code block by 2 (4 -> 6):

dlga_member_chat:member_talk 4095 13  4


Right after 2200 1 144115188075855892 1507 1 144115188075855892 in the same line, add the following piece, separated by 1 gap from each side:

2147483679 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640883 2147483681 3 144115188075855892 360287970189639980 360287970189639999


In case you have the To be able to hire unique spawn leaders as companions when taken prisoner tweak installed, you only need to increase the operation counter by 1 (5 -> 6) and add only the following piece, as the remaining needed is already there:

2147483679 2 144115188075855892 360287970189640883


6) Next, open scripts.txt, increase the counter at the beginning of the enter_court script by 6 (210 -> 216), and find this piece:

3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351601 546 3 504403158265495619 11 6 1263 2 30 360287970189640875 1263 2 8 360287970189640876 1263 2 31 360287970189640877 3 0 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189639680 30 32 2 1224979098644774919 0 540 3 1224979098644774919 12 1224979098644774912 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1


Replace it with this:

1263 2 21 360287970189640883 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351601 546 3 504403158265495619 11 6 1263 2 30 360287970189640875 1263 2 8 360287970189640876 1263 2 31 360287970189640877 3 0 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189639680 30 32 2 1224979098644774919 0 540 3 1224979098644774919 12 1224979098644774912 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 5 0 520 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189639680 30 31 2 1224979098644774919 360287970189640883 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1


Make sure that there is exactly 1 space to the left and right of the replacement!

7) In case you applied the previous tweak as well (adding Noldor ladies), then increase the counter at the beginning of the enter_court_castle script by 6 (193 -> 199), and find this piece in it:

4 0 31 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 32 2 144115188075855960 0


Replace it with this:

4 0 520 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189639680 30 31 2 1224979098644774919 360287970189640885 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 32 2 144115188075855960 0


Otherwise, if you haven't applied that tweak, then replace the whole body of enter_court_castle script with this:

191 21 1 1224979098644774912 2133 2 144115188075856070 1 1911 1 792633534417207303 1941 2 792633534417207303 0 521 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 11 1261 1 1224979098644774913 1262 0 2204 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 522 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 49 521 3 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 289 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 3 0 4 0 2147483680 2 1224979098644774915 0 2133 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189639737 3 0 1263 2 6 1224979098644774915 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774916 0 33 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189640008 360287970189640028 2121 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774916 360287970189640008 2105 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640065 3 0 1263 2 7 1224979098644774915 521 3 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774912 293 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774917 0 1263 2 31 1224979098644774917 3 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 16 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351600 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640767 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640768 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640769 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640770 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351601 546 3 504403158265495619 11 6 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640875 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640876 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 1263 2 1224979098644774918 360287970189640877 2105 2 1224979098644774918 2 3 0 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774919 360287970189639680 30 31 2 1224979098644774919 360287970189640883 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 32 2 144115188075855960 0 2147484188 3 360287970189639680 30 144115188075855960 1263 2 1224979098644774918 144115188075855960 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856292 1224979098644774912 542 3 1224979098644774914 11 360287970189639680 6 3 1224979098644774920 360287970189640185 360287970189640315 2173 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 31 2 1224979098644774921 432345564227567630 540 3 1224979098644774920 2 0 2147484208 3 1224979098644774920 8 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 144115188075855960 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774920 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 3 0 1 3 936748722493063393 1224979098644774912 648518346341351425 1650 2 1224979098644774922 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774922 1652 3 1224979098644774924 648518346341351425 1224979098644774923 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 32 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774924 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 2147483679 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 540 3 1224979098644774925 12 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 1073742364 3 360287970189639680 30 1224979098644774925 1073742364 3 360287970189639680 34 1224979098644774925 1073742364 3 1224979098644774925 30 360287970189639680 540 3 1224979098644774925 34 360287970189639680 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787459 3 0 5 0 2173 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774925 2147483679 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774914 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787460 3 0 5 0 560 3 1224979098644774925 30 1 4 0 542 3 1224979098644774914 4 6 542 3 1224979098644774914 5 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787461 3 0 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 216172782113787462 3 0 3 0 5 0 542 3 1224979098644774914 4 6 542 3 1224979098644774914 5 1224979098644774912 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415057 3 0 5 0 560 3 1224979098644774925 5 2 2133 2 1224979098644774926 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415058 3 0 5 0 1 2 936748722493063701 1224979098644774925 1 3 936748722493063717 72057594037927936 360287970189639680 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415059 3 0 5 0 4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 2322 2 4 1224979098644774925 1106 1 1585267068834415060 3 0 3 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774918 32 1263 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774925 2105 2 1224979098644774918 1 3 0 4 0 200 1 504403158265495614 3221226014 3 1224979098644774914 4 6 2147484190 3 1224979098644774914 5 1224979098644774912 4 0 2147483850 1 504403158265495614 2147483851 1 504403158265495614 546 3 504403158265495614 1 144115188075856143 1263 2 30 360287970189640763 526 3 1224979098644774928 504403158265495614 11 33 3 1224979098644774928 0 4 1263 2 15 360287970189640764 1263 2 31 360287970189640765 1911 1 792633534417207304 5 0 546 3 504403158265495614 1 144115188075856143 1263 2 31 360287970189640765 3 0 3 0 1912 1 0 1910 1 1224979098644774913 503 3 1224979098644774913 0 1 2048 0


8) Next, increase the counter at the beginning of the script called player_leave_faction by 5 (67 -> 72), and find this piece at its end:

1224979098644774924 3 0 1 1 936748722493063582 2133 2 144115188075855955 1


And replace it with this:

1224979098644774924 3 0 4 0 520 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189639680 30 31 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640883 1550 2 1224979098644774925 432345564227567630 3 0 1 1 936748722493063582 2133 2 144115188075855955 1


9) Once again, in case you applied the previous tweak as well (adding Noldor ladies), then increase the counter at the beginning of the player_join_faction script by 1 (112 -> 113), and find this piece in it:

31 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640884


Replace it with this:

1073741855 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640884 31 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640885


Otherwise, if you haven't applied that tweak, then increase the counter at the beginning of the player_join_faction script by 1 (110 -> 111), and find this piece in it:

33 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 360287970189640416


Replace it with this:

1073741857 3 1224979098644774925 360287970189640315 360287970189640416 31 2 1224979098644774925 360287970189640883


10) Then, increase the counter at the beginning of the script called party_remove_all_companions by 2 (67 -> 69), and find this piece in it:

2147483681 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640310 360287970189640315 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915


Replace it with this:

2147483681 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189640310 360287970189640315 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 360287970189640883 2147483681 3 1224979098644774915 360287970189639980 360287970189639999 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915


Make sure that there is exactly 1 space to the left and right of the above replacements!

11) Lastly, make sure that the highlighted dialog_state numbers from point 3) match the values calculated in point 2) and that the following IDs match with the formulas down below. It is only needed to check them if you added something else to dialog_states.txt, troops.txt and scripts.txt respectively, due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is. So if necessary, replace:

1874 (point 3), line 1, 2 & 3) with the number you got for noldor_husband_talk_1
1875 (point 3), line 3 & 4) with the number you got for noldor_husband_talk_2
1876 (point 3), line 4, 5 & 6) with the number you got for noldor_husband_talk_3
1877 (point 3), line 5, 7 & 8) with the number you got for noldor_husband_talk_4
66739 (point 3), line 1, 4, 7 & 8) with the number you get for: 65536 + № of trp_noldor_husband_1 (Ilaedanir) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
1203 (point 3), line 2, 3, 5 & 6) with № of trp_noldor_husband_1 (Ilaedanir) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640883 (point 3), line 7, 3 instances; point 4); point 5); point 6), 2 instances; point 7); point 8); point 9); point 10) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_noldor_husband_1 (Ilaedanir) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640885 (point 7); point 9) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_noldor_husband_1 (Ilaedanir) in troops.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
360287970189640884 (point 9) with the number you get for: 360287970189639680 + № of trp_noldor_lady_2 (Elasai) in troops.txt from the previous tweak, if it was applied too (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

18. Items (21)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
18 a) To reduce the costs to upgrade rune equipment at the Hidden Mines of Al-Aziz
18 b) To add more rune weapons and armor to the mines of Al-Aziz
18 c) To restore the original look of the Siege Crossbow from v3.7, and add in a new crossbow with new bolts using already existing textures
18 d) To add a new body armor to the game: Kraken Plate
18 e) To remove heraldic body armors from Pendor troops and with the help of 3 new dark armors, redesign these troops a bit
18 f) To add a small firearm pack
18 g) To disable the rotting process of meat products (pork, chicken and beef)
18 h) To increase the quantity and morale bonus of food and drinks
18 i) To allow the consuming of Ale and Wine
18 j) To remove the restriction of buying 1 baggage train at a time from tavernkeepers
18 k) To prevent Ullr Vetr Manifest from disappearing when Wolfbode the Slayer gets defeated
18 l) To empower the Ullr Vetr Manifest with an area of effect damage
18 m) To make any ranged weapon fire multiple projectiles
18 n) To add flame particles to any weapon and adjust its properties
18 o) To change the amount of skill, attribute and relation points that books give
18 p) To change the number of hours it takes to read a book
18 q) To modify the effects of the 3 elixirs
18 r) To adjust the recovery time of lamed and swaybacked horses
18 s) A collection of tweaks for changing the stats and flags of various items
18 t) To change the refreshing rate and components of merchants' stock
18 u) To automatically display an item's ID number in-game


Tweak 18 a)

To reduce the costs to upgrade rune equipment at the Hidden Mines of Al-Aziz

File: conversation.txt

1) Find the following line. It will serve as an example:

dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713035 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Axe.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713035 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713036 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER


The lime and blue sections are responsible for the cost of Qualis Gem and Large Pouch of Diamonds respectively. Both of them can be found in pairs: one is for checking if you have the item needed and the other one is for taking it away from you. Always change or remove both.

2) To eliminate the Qualis Gem and/or the Large Pouch of diamonds from the costs, then simply remove the lime and/or the blue parts above (watch for the gaps!), and change the operation counters in red accordingly: decrease both 3 and 5 by 1 or 2, depending on if you removed either or both costs.

3) Do the same to the 17 following lines (follow the pattern). There are 18 such lines in total one after the other. One for each upgraded rune equipment (15 weapons and 3 body armors). In case you added more rune items due to other tweaks, then don't forget to change the above values for them as well.

4) Alternatively, you may also change the required items. The highlighted 288230376151711870 and 288230376151711875 numbers are the indexes of Qualis Gem and Large Pouch of Diamonds respectively. Change these to something else, by making sure that those numbers will be the result of this addition: 288230376151711744 + EntryNumberOfItem. The entry number can be most easily checked with Morgh's Editor. After the edit is made, don't forget to change the description in the line that starts with dlga_magic_azziz_7:magic_azziz_9 ("requires_Qualis_Gem_and_Large_Pouch_of_Diamonds" is written there by default)

Tweak 18 b)

To add more rune weapons and armor to the mines of Al-Aziz

Credits:

lconracl for letting us use his awesome models and textures for the majority of items below
Dare2Die for the Rune Plates, Horse Armors, and the blades of Rune Two-handed Axes
Dalion for the Rune Daggers (with scabbard), Bastard Swords, Lances, Spears, Throwing Spears, Throwing Knives, Throwing Dirks, Shields and the handles of Rune Two-handed Axes
Leonion, faradon and Silver Wolf for the Rune Hammers, Crossbows, Arrows and Bolts
ArcticCactus01 for the assets used for some Rune Plates (from Warsword Conquest)
Furok and kraggim for the assets used for some Rune Horse Armors (from Warsword Conquest)

It is highly advised to add the below items to the game before adding other items from other tweaks! (adjust other tweaks if needed instead)

Many weapon and armor types are missing from the selection of the mines of Al-Aziz. With this tweak, that will be no longer the case! Rune daggers, bastard swords, two-handed axes, hammers, lances, spears, throwing spears/knives/dirks, crossbows, bolts, arrows, shields, horse armors (with horse), and multiple sets of rune plates! The items are set to have different capabilites as well beside having different stats. The stats are adjusted in a balance that I find appealing. If you don't like it, feel free to change them via Morgh's Editor. Note however that weapon reaches are matching the length of models, so it's not advised to change these if you want them to behave as expected.

The uploaded models and textures are not mine, I did not create them, and they were only allowed to be used and published for Prophesy of Pendor. Also, I've acquired all the necessary permissions from the different authors (see the credits). If you want to use them in your own published submod for Prophesy of Pendor, then you would first need to contact IconracI and MitchyMatt, then me for the further details regarding the necessary permissions.

Extras:

The prices for upgrading rune equipment are reduced by eliminating the cost of Large Pouch of Diamonds. Somewhat as they were prior to v3.9.
Clarissa of Pent can sew capes for or take them off from the different new Rune Plates
Aeldarian and Ithilrandir will have an Ebony and Silver Rune Plate respectively instead of Mystical Rune Plates, which can likewise be taken from them. These can be upgraded into much stronger versions than the original Sapphire/Ruby/Emerald Rune Plates
Mystical Rune Plates are now available for purchase from Hamidaron (at the mines of Al-Aziz)
Sapphire, Ruby and Emerald Rune Plates can be upgraded further to Azure, Bronze and Viridian variants respectively, for a cost of a Large Pouch of Diamonds and a jar of Wine for each (as usual). These will have the same stats compared to each other, so that at least stats won't have to be evaluated beside aesthetics.

Screenshots:

On the Nexus page down below

Stats:

Expand

Strange Rune Dagger:

Weight: 0.75
Swing damage: 40c
Thrust damage: 31p
Speed Rating: 124
Weapon Reach: 47
STR requirement: 9
Can Block

Sapphire Rune Dagger:

Weight: 0.5
Swing damage: 40c
Thrust damage: 33p
Speed Rating: 180
Weapon Reach: 47
STR requirement: 9
Can Block

Ruby Rune Dagger:

Weight: 1.0
Swing damage: 40p
Thrust damage: 35p
Speed Rating: 124
Weapon Reach: 47
STR requirement: 12
Can Block

Emerald Rune Dagger:

Weight: 0.75
Swing damage: 47c
Thrust damage: 37p
Speed Rating: 152
Weapon Reach: 47
STR requirement: 9
Can Block


Strange Rune Bastard Sword:

One-handed/Two-handed
Weight: 1.75
Swing damage: 53c
Thrust damage: 33p
Speed Rating: 115
Weapon Reach: 120
STR requirement: 15

Sapphire Rune Bastard Sword:

One-handed/Two-handed
Weight: 1.5
Swing damage: 53c
Thrust damage: 35p
Speed Rating: 162
Weapon Reach: 125
STR requirement: 15

Ruby Rune Bastard Sword:

One-handed/Two-handed
Weight: 2.0
Swing damage: 53p
Thrust damage: 38p
Speed Rating: 112
Weapon Reach: 120
STR requirement: 18

Emerald Rune Bastard Sword:

One-handed/Two-handed
Weight: 1.75
Swing damage: 61c
Thrust damage: 40p
Speed Rating: 124
Weapon Reach: 130
STR requirement: 15


Strange Rune Two-handed Axe:

Weight: 4.5
Swing damage: 60c
Speed Rating: 90
Weapon Reach: 131
STR requirement: 18
Bonus against shields

Sapphire Rune Two-handed Axe:

Weight: 4.0
Swing damage: 63c
Speed Rating: 130
Weapon Reach: 131
STR requirement: 18
Bonus against shields

Ruby Rune Two-handed Axe:

Weight: 5.0
Swing damage: 63p
Speed Rating: 90
Weapon Reach: 131
STR requirement: 21
Bonus against shields

Emerald Rune Two-handed Axe:

Weight: 4.5
Swing damage: 73c
Speed Rating: 110
Weapon Reach: 131
STR requirement: 18
Bonus against shields


Strange Rune Hammer:

Two-handed, thrustable mace with a sharp tip
Weight: 5.5
Swing damage: 50b
Thrust damage: 35p
Speed Rating: 87
Weapon Reach: 100
STR requirement: 17
Crush through blocks

Sapphire Rune Hammer:

Two-handed, thrustable mace with a sharp tip
Weight: 4.5
Swing damage: 50b
Thrust damage: 35p
Speed Rating: 127
Weapon Reach: 100
STR requirement: 15
Crush through blocks

Ruby Rune Hammer:

One-handed/Two-handed, shorter mace
Weight: 5.0
Swing damage: 60b
Speed Rating: 87
Weapon Reach: 80
STR requirement: 20
Crush through blocks

Emerald Rune Hammer:

Two-handed, longer mace
Weight: 6.0
Swing damage: 55b
Speed Rating: 107
Weapon Reach: 116
STR requirement: 17
Crush through blocks
Unbalanced


Strange Rune Lance:

Weight: 4.0
Thrust damage: 40p
Speed Rating: 95
Weapon Reach: 270
STR requirement: 15

Sapphire Rune Lance:

Weight: 3.5
Thrust damage: 40p
Speed Rating: 138
Weapon Reach: 280
STR requirement: 15

Ruby Rune Lance:

Weight: 4.5
Thrust damage: 50p
Speed Rating: 95
Weapon Reach: 270
STR requirement: 18

Emerald Rune Lance:

Weight: 4.0
Thrust damage: 45p
Speed Rating: 116
Weapon Reach: 290
STR requirement: 15


Stranger Rune Spear:

Weight: 2.5
Swing damage (w/o shield): 25b
Thrust Damage: 45p
Speed Rating: 105
Weapon Reach: 152
STR requirement: 15

Sapphire Rune Spear:

Weight: 2.0
Swing damage (w/o shield): 25b
Thrust Damage: 45p
Speed Rating: 152
Weapon Reach: 152
STR requirement: 15

Ruby Rune Spear:

Weight: 3.0
Swing damage (w/o shield): 35b
Thrust Damage: 55p
Speed Rating: 105
Weapon Reach: 152
STR requirement: 18

Emerald Rune Spear:

Weight: 2.5
Swing damage (w/o shield): 30b
Thrust Damage: 50p
Speed Rating: 128
Weapon Reach: 152
STR requirement: 15


Strange Rune Throwing Spears:

Weight: 4.5
Damage: 66p
Reload speed: 100
Missile speed: 40
Ammo: 18
PT requirement: 4
Bonus against shields

Sapphire Rune Throwing Spears:

Weight: 4.0
Damage: 66p
Reload speed: 140
Missile speed: 45
Ammo: 24
PT requirement: 3
Bonus against shields

Ruby Rune Throwing Spears:

Weight: 5.0
Damage: 80p
Reload speed: 100
Missile speed: 55
Ammo: 18
PT requirement: 5
Bonus against shields

Emerald Rune Throwing Spears:

Weight: 4.5
Damage: 73p
Reload speed: 120
Missile speed: 50
Ammo: 21
PT requirement: 4
Bonus against shields


Strange Rune Throwing Daggers:

Weight: 3.5
Damage: 45p
Reload speed: 120
Missile speed: 40
Ammo: 27
PT requirement: 2

Sapphire Rune Throwing Daggers:

Weight: 3.0
Damage: 45p
Reload speed: 175
Missile speed: 45
Ammo: 37
PT requirement: 1

Ruby Rune Throwing Daggers:

Weight: 4.0
Damage: 55p
Reload speed: 120
Missile speed: 55
Ammo: 27
PT requirement: 3

Emerald Rune Throwing Daggers:

Weight: 3.5
Damage: 50p
Reload speed: 147
Missile speed: 50
Ammo: 32
PT requirement: 2


Strange Rune Throwing Dirks:

Weight: 3.3
Damage: 42p
Reload speed: 120
Missile speed: 40
Ammo: 30
PT requirement: 2

Sapphire Rune Throwing Dirks:

Weight: 2.8
Damage: 42p
Reload speed: 175
Missile speed: 45
Ammo: 40
PT requirement: 1

Ruby Rune Throwing Dirks:

Weight: 3.8
Damage: 52p
Reload speed: 120
Missile speed: 55
Ammo: 30
PT requirement: 3

Emerald Rune Throwing Dirks:

Weight: 3.3
Damage: 47p
Reload speed: 147
Missile speed: 50
Ammo: 35
PT requirement: 2


Strange Rune Crossbow:

Weight: 4.5
Damage: 95p
Accuracy: 93
Reload speed: 45
Missile speed: 85
STR requirement: 20

Sapphire Rune Crossbow:

Weight: 3.5
Damage: 95p
Accuracy: 95
Reload speed: 65
Missile speed: 85
STR requirement: 18
Usable on horseback

Ruby Rune Crossbow:

Weight: 5.5
Damage: 125p
Accuracy: 93
Reload speed: 45
Missile speed: 98
STR requirement: 23

Emerald Rune Crossbow:

Weight: 5.0
Damage: 110p
Accuracy: 99
Reload speed: 55
Missile speed: 91
STR requirement: 20


Sentinel Arrows:

Weight: 3.0
Length: 89
Ammo: 60
Damage: 15p
Bonus against shields


Sharpshooter Bolts:

Weight: 2.5
Length: 63
Ammo: 60
Damage: 30p
Bonus against shields


Strange Rune Shield:

Weight: 4.0
Resistance: 30
Durability: 1200
Speed: 95
Height: 57
Width: 29
Shield req: 6

Sapphire Rune Shield:

Weight: 3.5
Resistance: 35
Durability: 1200
Speed: 135
Height: 57
Width: 29
Shield req: 5

Ruby Rune Shield:

Weight: 4.5
Resistance: 40
Durability: 1500
Speed: 95
Height: 57
Width: 29
Shield req: 6

Emerald Rune Shield:

Weight: 4.0
Resistance: 35
Durability: 1600
Speed: 100
Height: 57
Width: 29
Shield req: 6


Silver Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 27.0
Head Armor: 10
Body Armor: 70
Leg Armor: 30
STR req: 25

Silver Sapphire Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 12.0
Head Armor: 17
Body Armor: 80
Leg Armor: 40
STR req: 15

Silver Ruby Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 32.0
Head Armor: 21
Body Armor: 85
Leg Armor: 44
STR req: 35

Silver Emerald Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 20.0
Head Armor: 19
Body Armor: 83
Leg Armor: 42
STR req: 25


Ebony Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 27.0
Head Armor: 10
Body Armor: 70
Leg Armor: 30
STR req: 25

Ebony Sapphire Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 12.0
Head Armor: 17
Body Armor: 80
Leg Armor: 40
STR req: 15

Ebony Ruby Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 32.0
Head Armor: 21
Body Armor: 85
Leg Armor: 44
STR req: 35

Ebony Emerald Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 20.0
Head Armor: 19
Body Armor: 83
Leg Armor: 42
STR req: 25


Azure Sapphire Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 22.0
Head Armor: 16
Body Armor: 80
Leg Armor: 39
STR req: 25

Bronze Ruby Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 22.0
Head Armor: 16
Body Armor: 80
Leg Armor: 39
STR req: 25

Viridian Emerald Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 22.0
Head Armor: 16
Body Armor: 80
Leg Armor: 39
STR req: 25


Amethyst Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 17.0
Head Armor: 9
Body Armor: 72
Leg Armor: 32
STR req: 22

Amber Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 27.0
Head Armor: 11
Body Armor: 75
Leg Armor: 34
STR req: 32

Jade Rune Plate (with Cape):

Weight: 21.0
Head Armor: 10
Body Armor: 74
Leg Armor: 33
STR req: 27


Strange Rune Horse:

Body Armor: 75
Hit Points: 300
Maneuverability: 38
Speed: 43
Charge Damage: 44
Riding req: 8

Sapphire Rune Horse:

Body Armor: 80
Hit Points: 350
Maneuverability: 49
Speed: 49
Charge Damage: 45
Riding req: 7

Ruby Rune Horse:

Body Armor: 100
Hit Points: 400
Maneuverability: 40
Speed: 44
Charge Damage: 55
Riding req: 9

Emerald Rune Horse:

Body Armor: 80
Hit Points: 500
Maneuverability: 43
Speed: 45
Charge Damage: 50
Riding req: 9

Files:

module.ini
item_kinds1.txt
(menus.txt)
conversation.txt
scripts.txt
troops.txt

1) Download this addon (.zip file) from Nexus Mods: https://www.nexusmods.com/mbwarband/mods/6315 In case you have an unmodified (untweaked) version of Prophesy of Pendor v3.9.5.1, then simply extract its content into your PoP module and overwrite everything:

Manual installation directory: Program Files\Steam\steamapps\common\MountBlade Warband\Modules\Prophesy of Pendor V3.9.5\
Steam Workshop directory: Program Files\Steam\steamapps\workshop\content\48700\Prophesy of Pendor V3.9.5\

That's it, you are done! In case you tweaked the files to be overwritten, then your revision is required (see below). Or simply reapply the tweaks after overwriting the files. If a manual application of the addon is required in form of a tweak due to incompatibility, then proceed to the next points. I'll drive you through the process and I'll show you how to adjust stuff step by step.

2) First, copy over the "Resource" and "Textures" folders' content of the downloaded .zip file to the "Resource" and "Textures" folders of your PoP module. Then, open module.ini, and put this line to the end of the file:

load_mod_resource = RuneWeapons&Armor


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end!

3) Open item_kinds1.txt, and copy these 78 entries to almost at the end of the file, just before itm_items_end:

 itm_strange_rune_dagger Strange_Rune_Dagger Strange_Rune_Dagger 2  dagger_rune_b 0  dagger_rune_b_scabbard 3458764513820540928  12587010 9223388564719403023 9313 147456 0.750000 100 0 0 0 9 22528 124 0 47 0 287 40
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_dagger Sapphire_Rune_Dagger Sapphire_Rune_Dagger 2  dagger_rune_s 0  dagger_rune_s_scabbard 3458764513820540928  12587010 9223388564719403023 19303 147456 0.500000 100 0 0 0 9 22528 180 0 47 0 289 40
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_dagger Ruby_Rune_Dagger Ruby_Rune_Dagger 2  dagger_rune_r 0  dagger_rune_r_scabbard 3458764513820540928  12587010 9223388564719403023 19306 147456 1.000000 100 0 0 0 12 22528 124 0 47 0 291 296
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_dagger Emerald_Rune_Dagger Emerald_Rune_Dagger 2  dagger_rune_e 0  dagger_rune_e_scabbard 3458764513820540928  12587010 9223388564719403023 19303 147456 0.750000 100 0 0 0 9 22528 152 0 47 0 293 47
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_bastard_sword Strange_Rune_Bastard_Sword Strange_Rune_Bastard_Sword 2  bastard_sword_rune_b 0  bastard_sword_rune_b_scabbard 3458764513820540928  4198403 9223635954298781951 10010 147456 1.750000 100 0 32 0 15 46080 115 0 120 0 289 53
 0
0

 itm_saphire_rune_bastard_sword Sapphire_Rune_Bastard_Sword Sapphire_Rune_Bastard_Sword 2  bastard_sword_rune_s 0  bastard_sword_rune_s_scabbard 3458764513820540928  4198403 9223635954298781951 19390 147456 1.500000 100 0 32 0 15 46080 162 0 125 0 291 53
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_bastard_sword Ruby_Rune_Bastard_Sword Ruby_Rune_Bastard_Sword 2  bastard_sword_rune_r 0  bastard_sword_rune_r_scabbard 3458764513820540928  4198403 9223635954298781951 19393 147456 2.000000 100 0 32 0 18 46080 112 0 120 0 294 309
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_bastard_sword Emerald_Rune_Bastard_Sword Emerald_Rune_Bastard_Sword 2  bastard_sword_rune_e 0  bastard_sword_rune_e_scabbard 3458764513820540928  4198403 9223635954298781951 19390 147456 1.750000 100 0 32 0 15 53248 124 0 130 0 296 61
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_two-handed_axe Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Axe Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Axe 1  th_axe_handle_b 0  73666563 9223635923965575392 10010 393216 4.500000 100 0 0 0 18 61440 90 0 131 0 256 60
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_two-handed_axe Sapphire_Rune_Two-handed_Axe Sapphire_Rune_Two-handed_Axe 1  th_axe_handle_s 0  73666563 9223635923965575392 19390 393216 4.000000 100 0 0 0 18 61440 130 0 131 0 256 63
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_two-handed_axe Ruby_Rune_Two-handed_Axe Ruby_Rune_Two-handed_Axe 1  th_axe_handle_r 0  73666563 9223635923965575392 19393 393216 5.000000 100 0 0 0 21 61440 90 0 131 0 256 319
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_two-handed_axe Emerald_Rune_Two-handed_Axe Emerald_Rune_Two-handed_Axe 1  th_axe_handle_e 0  73666563 9223635923965575392 19390 393216 4.500000 100 0 0 0 18 61440 110 0 131 0 256 73
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_hammer Strange_Rune_Hammer Strange_Rune_Hammer 1  sw_warhammer_base 0  279179169795 9223635925911732464 10010 147456 5.500000 100 0 32 0 17 56320 87 0 100 0 291 562
 0
0

 itm_saphire_rune_hammer Sapphire_Rune_Hammer Sapphire_Rune_Hammer 1  sw_warhammer_blue 0  279179169795 9223635925911732464 19390 147456 4.500000 100 0 32 0 15 61440 127 0 100 0 291 562
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_hammer Ruby_Rune_Hammer Ruby_Rune_Hammer 1  sw_warhammer_red 0  279177072643 9223635925844623598 19393 147456 5.000000 100 0 32 0 20 61440 87 0 80 0 512 572
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_hammer Emerald_Rune_Hammer Emerald_Rune_Hammer 1  sw_warhammer_green 0  313538908163 9223635925844623584 19390 147456 6.000000 100 0 32 0 17 6144 107 0 116 0 512 567
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_lance Strange_Rune_Lance Strange_Rune_Lance 1  lance_rune_b 0  2251802099863556 27021597965549824 10010 393216 4.000000 100 0 0 0 15 0 95 0 270 0 296 0
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_lance Sapphire_Rune_Lance Sapphire_Rune_Lance 1  lance_rune_s 0  2251802099863556 27021597965549824 19390 393216 3.500000 100 0 0 0 15 0 138 0 280 0 296 0
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_lance Ruby_Rune_Lance Ruby_Rune_Lance 1  lance_rune_r 0  2251802099863556 27021597965549824 19393 393216 4.500000 100 0 0 0 18 0 95 0 270 0 306 0
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_lance Emerald_Rune_Lance Emerald_Rune_Lance 1  lance_rune_e 0  2251802099863556 27021597965549824 19390 393216 4.000000 100 0 0 0 15 0 116 0 290 0 301 0
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_spear Strange_Rune_Spear Strange_Rune_Spear 1  spear_rune_b 0  2251799818145796 31243728790228224 10010 393216 2.500000 100 0 0 0 15 0 105 0 152 0 301 537
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_spear Sapphire_Rune_Spear Sapphire_Rune_Spear 1  spear_rune_s 0  2251799818145796 31243728790228224 19390 393216 2.000000 100 0 0 0 15 0 152 0 152 0 301 537
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_spear Ruby_Rune_Spear Ruby_Rune_Spear 1  spear_rune_r 0  2251799818145796 31243728790228224 19393 393216 3.000000 100 0 0 0 18 0 105 0 152 0 311 547
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_spear Emerald_Rune_Spear Emerald_Rune_Spear 1  spear_rune_e 0  2251799818145796 31243728790228224 19390 393216 2.500000 100 0 0 0 15 0 128 0 152 0 306 542
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_throwing_spears Strange_Rune_Throwing_Spears Strange_Rune_Throwing_Spears 2  jarid_rune_b 0  jarid_rune_b_bag 3458764513820540928  71307274 36507484160 10010 4398046519296 4.500000 100 0 0 0 4 0 100 40 61 18 322 0
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_throwing_spears Sapphire_Rune_Throwing_Spears Sapphire_Rune_Throwing_Spears 2  jarid_rune_s 0  jarid_rune_s_bag 3458764513820540928  71307274 36507484160 19390 4398046519296 4.000000 100 0 0 0 3 0 140 45 61 24 322 0
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_throwing_spears Ruby_Rune_Throwing_Spears Ruby_Rune_Throwing_Spears 2  jarid_rune_r 0  jarid_rune_r_bag 3458764513820540928  71307274 36507484160 19393 4398046519296 5.000000 100 0 0 0 5 0 100 55 61 18 336 0
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_throwing_spears Emerald_Rune_Throwing_Spears Emerald_Rune_Throwing_Spears 2  jarid_rune_e 0  jarid_rune_e_bag 3458764513820540928  71307274 36507484160 19390 4398046519296 4.500000 100 0 0 0 4 0 120 50 61 21 329 0
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_throwing_daggers Strange_Rune_Throwing_Daggers Strange_Rune_Throwing_Daggers 1  throwing_knife_rune_1_b 0  4198410 131072 9313 4398046519296 3.500000 100 0 0 0 2 0 120 40 1 27 301 0
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_throwing_daggers Sapphire_Rune_Throwing_Daggers Sapphire_Rune_Throwing_Daggers 1  throwing_knife_rune_1_s 0  4198410 131072 19303 4398046519296 3.000000 100 0 0 0 1 0 175 45 1 37 301 0
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_throwing_daggers Ruby_Rune_Throwing_Daggers Ruby_Rune_Throwing_Daggers 1  throwing_knife_rune_1_r 0  4198410 131072 19306 4398046519296 4.000000 100 0 0 0 3 0 120 55 1 27 311 0
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_throwing_daggers Emerald_Rune_Throwing_Daggers Emerald_Rune_Throwing_Daggers 1  throwing_knife_rune_1_e 0  4198410 131072 19303 4398046519296 3.500000 100 0 0 0 2 0 147 50 1 32 306 0
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_throwing_dirks Strange_Rune_Throwing_Dirks Strange_Rune_Throwing_Dirks 1  throwing_knife_rune_2_b 0  4198410 131072 9313 4398046519296 3.300000 100 0 0 0 2 0 120 40 0 30 298 0
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_throwing_dirks Sapphire_Rune_Throwing_Dirks Sapphire_Rune_Throwing_Dirks 1  throwing_knife_rune_2_s 0  4198410 131072 19303 4398046519296 2.800000 100 0 0 0 1 0 175 45 0 40 298 0
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_throwing_dirks Ruby_Rune_Throwing_Dirks Ruby_Rune_Throwing_Dirks 1  throwing_knife_rune_2_r 0  4198410 131072 19306 4398046519296 3.800000 100 0 0 0 3 0 120 55 0 30 308 0
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_throwing_dirks Emerald_Rune_Throwing_Dirks Emerald_Rune_Throwing_Dirks 1  throwing_knife_rune_2_e 0  4198410 131072 19303 4398046519296 3.300000 100 0 0 0 2 0 147 50 0 35 303 0
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_crossbow Strange_Rune_Crossbow Strange_Rune_Crossbow 1  crossbow_c_base 0  274731017 5637160960 10001 132096 4.500000 100 0 32 93 20 0 45 85 0 1 351 0
 0
0

 itm_saphire_rune_crossbow Sapphire_Rune_Crossbow Sapphire_Rune_Crossbow 1  crossbow_c_blue 0  6295561 5637160960 17962 132096 3.500000 100 0 32 95 18 0 65 85 0 1 351 0
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_crossbow Ruby_Rune_Crossbow Ruby_Rune_Crossbow 1  crossbow_c_red 0  274731017 5637160960 17962 132096 5.500000 100 0 32 93 23 0 45 98 0 1 381 0
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_crossbow Emerald_Rune_Crossbow Emerald_Rune_Crossbow 1  crossbow_c_green 0  274731017 5637160960 17962 132096 5.000000 100 0 32 99 20 0 55 91 0 1 366 0
 0
0

 itm_sharpshooter_bolts Sharpshooter_Bolts Sharpshooter_Bolts 4  bolt_snake 0  flying_missile 2305843009213693952  bolt_bag_snake 3458764513820540928  bolt_bag_snake 1152921504606846976  83890182 1879048192 9300 4398046511104 2.500000 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 63 60 286 0
 0
0

 itm_sentinel_arrows Sentinel_Arrows Sentinel_Arrows 4  arrow_snake 0  flying_missile 2305843009213693952  quiver_snake 3458764513820540928  quiver_snake 1152921504606846976  67112965 1610612736 10000 4398046511104 3.000000 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 89 60 271 0
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_shield Strange_Rune_Shield Strange_Rune_Shield 1  shield_rune_b 0  4103 4831838208 10000 167772160 4.000000 100 0 30 0 6 1200 95 57 29 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_shield Sapphire_Rune_Shield Sapphire_Rune_Shield 1  shield_rune_s 0  4103 4831838208 17950 167772160 3.500000 100 0 35 0 5 1200 135 57 29 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ruby_rune_shield Ruby_Rune_Shield Ruby_Rune_Shield 1  shield_rune_r 0  4103 4831838208 17970 167772160 4.500000 100 0 40 0 6 1500 95 57 29 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_emerald_rune_shield Emerald_Rune_Shield Emerald_Rune_Shield 1  shield_rune_e 0  4103 4831838208 17960 167772160 4.000000 100 0 35 0 6 1600 100 57 29 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_strange_rune_horse Strange_Rune_Horse Strange_Rune_Horse 1  warhorse_steel_base 0  4097 0 30030 103079477248 0.000000 100 0 75 0 8 300 38 43 112 0 44 0
 1
 15
0

 itm_sapphire_rune_horse Sapphire_Rune_Horse Sapphire_Rune_Horse 1  warhorse_steel_sapphire 0  4097 0 40010 103079477248 0.000000 100 0 80 0 7 350 49 49 112 0 45 0
 1
 15
0

 itm_ruby_rune_horse Ruby_Rune_Horse Ruby_Rune_Horse 1  warhorse_steel_ruby 0  4097 0 40030 103079477248 0.000000 100 0 100 0 9 400 40 44 112 0 55 0
 1
 15
0

 itm_emerald_rune_horse Emerald_Rune_Horse Emerald_Rune_Horse 1  warhorse_steel_emerald 0  4097 0 40020 103079477248 0.000000 100 0 80 0 9 500 43 45 112 0 50 0
 1
 15
0

 itm_silver_rune_plate Silver_Rune_Plate Silver_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_wh 0  553652237 0 30030 671088640 27.000000 100 10 70 30 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_silver_sapphire_rune_plate Silver_Sapphire_Rune_Plate Silver_Sapphire_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_wh_s 0  553652237 0 40010 671088640 12.000000 100 17 80 40 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_silver_ruby_rune_plate Silver_Ruby_Rune_Plate Silver_Ruby_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_wh_r 0  553652237 0 40030 671088640 32.000000 100 21 85 44 35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_silver_emerald_rune_plate Silver_Emerald_Rune_Plate Silver_Emerald_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_wh_e 0  553652237 0 40020 671088640 20.000000 100 19 83 42 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_silver_rune_plate_cape Silver_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Silver_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_wh_cape 0  553652237 0 30030 671088640 27.000000 100 10 70 30 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_silver_sapphire_rune_plate_cape Silver_Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Silver_Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_wh_s_cape 0  553652237 0 40010 671088640 12.000000 100 17 80 40 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_silver_ruby_rune_plate_cape Silver_Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Silver_Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_wh_r_cape 0  553652237 0 40030 671088640 32.000000 100 21 85 44 35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_silver_emerald_rune_plate_cape Silver_Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Silver_Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_wh_e_cape 0  553652237 0 40020 671088640 20.000000 100 19 83 42 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_rune_plate Ebony_Rune_Plate Ebony_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_bl 0  553652237 0 30030 671088640 27.000000 100 10 70 30 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_sapphire_rune_plate Ebony_Sapphire_Rune_Plate Ebony_Sapphire_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_bl_s 0  553652237 0 40010 671088640 12.000000 100 17 80 40 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_ruby_rune_plate Ebony_Ruby_Rune_Plate Ebony_Ruby_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_bl_r 0  553652237 0 40030 671088640 32.000000 100 21 85 44 35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_emerald_rune_plate Ebony_Emerald_Rune_Plate Ebony_Emerald_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_bl_e 0  553652237 0 40020 671088640 20.000000 100 19 83 42 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_rune_plate_cape Ebony_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Ebony_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_bl_cape 0  553652237 0 30030 671088640 27.000000 100 10 70 30 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_sapphire_rune_plate_cape Ebony_Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Ebony_Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_bl_s_cape 0  553652237 0 40010 671088640 12.000000 100 17 80 40 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_ruby_rune_plate_cape Ebony_Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Ebony_Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_bl_r_cape 0  553652237 0 40030 671088640 32.000000 100 21 85 44 35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_emerald_rune_plate_cape Ebony_Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Ebony_Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_bl_e_cape 0  553652237 0 40020 671088640 20.000000 100 19 83 42 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_azure_sapphire_rune_plate Azure_Sapphire_Rune_Plate Azure_Sapphire_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_azure_s 0  553652237 0 40010 671088640 22.000000 100 16 80 39 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_bronze_ruby_rune_plate Bronze_Ruby_Rune_Plate Bronze_Ruby_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_lamellar_r 0  553652237 0 40030 671088640 22.000000 100 16 80 39 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_viridian_emerald_rune_plate Viridian_Emerald_Rune_Plate Viridian_Emerald_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_clarion_e 0  553652237 0 40020 671088640 22.000000 100 16 80 39 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_azure_sapphire_rune_plate_cape Azure_Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Azure_Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_azure_s_cape 0  553652237 0 40010 671088640 22.000000 100 16 80 39 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_bronze_ruby_rune_plate_cape Bronze_Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Bronze_Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_lamellar_r_cape 0  553652237 0 40030 671088640 22.000000 100 16 80 39 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_viridian_emerald_rune_plate_cape Viridian_Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Viridian_Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_clarion_e_cape 0  553652237 0 40020 671088640 22.000000 100 16 80 39 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_amethyst_rune_plate Amethyst_Rune_Plate Amethyst_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_fail_purple 0  553652237 0 33010 671088640 17.000000 100 9 72 32 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_amber_rune_plate Amber_Rune_Plate Amber_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_fail_orange 0  553652237 0 33030 671088640 27.000000 100 11 75 34 32 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_jade_rune_plate Jade_Rune_Plate Jade_Rune_Plate 1  rune_armor_fail_turquoise 0  553652237 0 33020 671088640 21.000000 100 10 74 33 27 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_amethyst_rune_plate_cape Amethyst_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Amethyst_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_fail_purple_cape 0  553652237 0 33010 671088640 17.000000 100 9 72 32 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_amber_rune_plate_cape Amber_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Amber_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_fail_orange_cape 0  553652237 0 33030 671088640 27.000000 100 11 75 34 32 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_jade_rune_plate_cape Jade_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Jade_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  rune_armor_fail_turquoise_cape 0  553652237 0 33020 671088640 21.000000 100 10 74 33 27 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0


Make sure that there is 1, and only 1 empty line left between the different entries

4) Increase the item count at the top of the file by 78 (1573 -> 1651). In case you want to upgrade rune weapons at Alexios with the help of the respective tweak, make sure that you also add the necessary modifiers to the already existing rune items with Morgh's Editor, as follows!

Rune bows (4): 'Strong' and 'Masterwork'
Rune axes (4): 'Heavy' and 'Masterwork'
Rune swords (4): 'Tempered' and 'Masterwork'
Rune two-handed swords (4): 'Tempered' and 'Masterwork'
Rune glaives (4): 'Heavy' and 'Masterwork'

The 'Plain' modifier can be removed for all of them

5) Extend the cheatmenu's item count by 78 if you so desire, to include the recently added items. Open menus.txt and find these two lines with the highlighted numbers:

menu_cheat_find_item 4096 {!}Current_item_range:_{reg5}_to_{reg6} none 5 2031 1 1441151880758558775 2133 2 72057594037927941 144115188075856169 2120 3 72057594037927942 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 72057594037927942 288230376151713316 2106 2 72057594037927942 1 3
 mno_cheat_find_item_next_range  0  {!}Move_to_next_item_range.  6 2105 2 144115188075856169 96 4 0 30 2 144115188075856169 288230376151713316 2133 2 144115188075856169 0 3 0 2060 1 864691128455135264  .  mno_cheat_find_item_choose_this  0  {!}Choose_from_this_range.  9 1532 1 360287970189639684 2120 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713316


There are 3 instances of that 288230376151713316 number. Increase all of them by 78 (288230376151713316 -> 288230376151713394)

6) Open conversation.txt and find this line:

dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.5 66439 26  0 Thank_you_I_will_leave_now.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


7) Replace it with these (18 new lines):

dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.5 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Dagger.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713316 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.6 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Bastard_Sword.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713320 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.7 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Two-handed_Axe.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713324 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.8 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Hammer.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713328 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.9 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Lance.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713332 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.10 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Spear.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713336 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.11 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_those_Rune_Throwing_Spears.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713340 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.12 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_those_Rune_Throwing_Daggers.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713344 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.13 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_those_Rune_Throwing_Dirks.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713348 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.14 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Crossbow.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713352 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.15 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_those_Sharpshooter_Bolts.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713356 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.16 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_those_Sentinel_Arrows.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713357 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.17 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Shield.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713358 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.18 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Horse_Armor_(with_horse).  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713362 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.19 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Rune_Plate.  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.20 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Amethyst_Rune_Plate_(failed_experiment).  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713388 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.21 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Amber_Rune_Plate_(failed_experiment).  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713389 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.22 66439 26  2 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711869 I_want_that_Jade_Rune_Plate_(failed_experiment).  6  3 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711869 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713390 0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_weapon_a3:close_window.23 66439 26  0 Thank_you_I_will_leave_now.  6  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


The highlighted numbers are the indexes of the different items respectively. Make sure that those numbers are the result of this addition: 288230376151711744 + EntryNumberOfItem. The entry number can be most easily checked with Morgh's Editor. It is only needed to check if you've added other items to the game prior to this tweak. If that's the case, then it's still advised to adjust the other tweaks instead, as this one would be much more time-consuming.

8) Then find these lines:

dlga_magic_azziz_7:magic_azziz_9 66440 30  0 I_might..._take_a_look_at_my_inventory.^^^^^(item_must_be_IN_inventory,_NOT_equipped;_requires_Qualis_Gem_and_Large_Pouch_of_Diamonds)  31  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_9:magic_azziz_8 904 31  0 Eh?_Let_me_see_what_I_can_do..._^^Hmmm_..._I_can_put_one_of_the_gemstones_into_your_item's_socket_to_enhance_it.  32  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713035 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Axe.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713035 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713036 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.1 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713035 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Axe.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713035 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713037 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.2 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713035 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Axe.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713035 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713038 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.3 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713152 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Glaive.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713152 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713153 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.4 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713152 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Glaive.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713152 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713154 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.5 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713152 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Glaive.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713152 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713155 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.6 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713039 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Sword.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713039 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713040 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.7 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713039 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Sword.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713039 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713041 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.8 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713039 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Sword.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713039 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713042 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.9 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151712868 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Bow.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712868 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712870 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.10 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151712868 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Bow.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712868 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712871 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.11 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151712868 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Bow.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712868 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712872 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.12 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713094 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Sword.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713094 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713095 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.13 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713094 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Sword.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713094 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713096 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.14 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151713094 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Sword.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713094 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713097 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.15 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151712432 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Sapphire_into_Mystical_Rune_Plate.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712433 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.16 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151712432 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Ruby_into_Mystical_Rune_Plate.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712434 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.17 66440 32  3 150 1 288230376151712432 150 1 288230376151711870 150 1 288230376151711875 Insert_Emerald_into_Mystical_Rune_Plate.  6  5 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712435 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 


9) And replace them with these (48 new lines):

dlga_magic_azziz_7:magic_azziz_9 66440 30  0 I_might..._take_a_look_at_my_inventory.^^^^^(item_must_be_IN_inventory,_NOT_equipped;_requires_Qualis_Gem_to_upgrade_or_Large_Pouch_of_Diamonds_to_enhance_further)  31  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_9:magic_azziz_8 904 31  0 Eh?_Let_me_see_what_I_can_do..._^^Hmmm_..._I_can_put_one_of_the_gemstones_into_your_item's_socket_to_enchant_it._Or_enhance_the_base_material_of_certain_upgraded_Rune_Plates.  32  0 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713035 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Axe.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713035 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713036 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.1 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713035 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Axe.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713035 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713037 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.2 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713035 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Axe.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713035 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713038 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.3 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713152 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Glaive.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713152 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713153 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.4 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713152 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Glaive.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713152 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713154 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.5 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713152 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Glaive.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713152 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713155 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.6 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713039 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713039 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713040 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.7 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713039 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713039 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713041 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.8 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713039 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713039 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713042 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.9 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712868 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Bow.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712868 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712870 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.10 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712868 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Bow.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712868 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712871 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.11 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712868 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Bow.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712868 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712872 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.12 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713094 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713094 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713095 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.13 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713094 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713094 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713096 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.14 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713094 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713094 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713097 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.15 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712432 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Mystical_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712433 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.16 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712432 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Mystical_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712434 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.17 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712432 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Mystical_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151712435 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.18 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713316 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Dagger.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713316 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713317 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.19 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713316 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Dagger.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713316 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713318 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.20 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713316 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Dagger.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713316 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713319 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.21 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713320 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Bastard_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713320 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713321 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.22 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713320 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Bastard_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713320 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713322 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.23 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713320 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Bastard_Sword.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713320 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713323 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.24 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713324 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Axe.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713324 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713325 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.25 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713324 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Axe.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713324 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713326 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.26 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713324 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Two-handed_Axe.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713324 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713327 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.27 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713328 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Hammer.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713328 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713329 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.28 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713328 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Hammer.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713328 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713330 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.29 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713328 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Hammer.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713328 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713331 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.30 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713332 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Lance.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713332 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713333 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.31 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713332 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Lance.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713332 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713334 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.32 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713332 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Lance.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713332 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713335 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.33 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713336 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Spear.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713336 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713337 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.34 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713336 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Spear.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713336 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713338 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.35 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713336 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Spear.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713336 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713339 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.36 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713340 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Spears.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713340 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713341 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.37 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713340 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Spears.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713340 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713342 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.38 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713340 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Spears.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713340 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713343 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.39 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713344 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Daggers.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713344 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713345 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.40 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713344 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Daggers.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713344 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713346 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.41 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713344 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Daggers.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713344 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713347 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.42 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713348 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Dirks.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713348 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713349 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.43 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713348 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Dirks.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713348 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713350 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.44 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713348 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Throwing_Dirks.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713348 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713351 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.45 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713352 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Crossbow.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713352 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713353 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.46 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713352 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Crossbow.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713352 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713354 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.47 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713352 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Crossbow.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713352 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713355 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.48 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713358 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Shield.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713358 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713359 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.49 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713358 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Shield.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713358 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713360 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.50 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713358 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Shield.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713358 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713361 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.51 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713362 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Strange_Rune_Horse_Armor.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713362 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713363 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.52 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713362 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Strange_Rune_Horse_Armor.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713362 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713364 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.53 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713362 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Strange_Rune_Horse_Armor.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713362 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713365 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.54 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713366 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Silver_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713366 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713367 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.55 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713366 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Silver_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713366 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713368 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.56 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713366 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Silver_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713366 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713369 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.57 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713374 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Sapphire_into_Ebony_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713374 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713375 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.58 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713374 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Ruby_into_Ebony_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713374 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713376 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.59 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151713374 150 1 288230376151711870 Insert_Emerald_into_Ebony_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713374 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711870 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713377 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.60 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712433 150 1 288230376151711875 Enhance_Sapphire_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712433 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713382 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.61 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712434 150 1 288230376151711875 Enhance_Ruby_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712434 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713383 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.62 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712435 150 1 288230376151711875 Enhance_Emerald_Rune_Plate.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712435 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713384 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.63 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712436 150 1 288230376151711875 Enhance_Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712436 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713385 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.64 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712437 150 1 288230376151711875 Enhance_Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712437 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713386 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_magic_azziz_8:close_window.65 66440 32  2 150 1 288230376151712438 150 1 288230376151711875 Enhance_Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape.  6  4 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712438 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 1530 3 360287970189639680 288230376151713387 0 500 3 144115188075855892 80 1 NO_VOICEOVER 


Once again, the highlighted numbers above are the indexes of the different rune items. There are 3 highlighted numbers in each individual line, and the order of them is "Strange Rune weapon", "Strange Rune weapon" and "Sapphire/Ruby/Emerald variant". Make sure that those numbers are the result of this addition: 288230376151711744 + EntryNumberOfItem. The entry number can be most easily checked with Morgh's Editor. As mentioned, for the sake of simplicity, if you plan to add new items from multiple tweaks, it is advised to add the ones from this tweak first.

10) Now we add the option to take the Ebony and Silver Rune Plate from Aeldarian and Ithilrandir respectively (instead of Mystical Rune Plate, which is now available at the mines and Sadren will keep offering one too). So find this line:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_threat_retire.2 69631 1659  3 1073741855 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639992 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639993 30 2 144115188075855914 1 I_will_accept_your_armor.  1661  6 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 5 1 2 936748722493063450 3 1 2 936748722493063763 144115188075855892 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712432 1 3 936748722493063445 432345564227567643 10 NO_VOICEOVER 


11) And replace it with this:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_threat_retire.2 69631 1659  3 1073741855 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639992 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639993 30 2 144115188075855914 1 I_will_accept_your_armor.  1661  11 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1 3 936748722493063442 360287970189639680 5 1 2 936748722493063450 3 1 2 936748722493063763 144115188075855892 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639992 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713374 5 0 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151713366 3 0 1 3 936748722493063445 432345564227567643 10 NO_VOICEOVER 


To make Aeldarian and Ithilrandir not leave Pendor after handling you their Silver/Ebony Rune Plate: decrease the 11 by 1 and delete the 1 2 936748722493063763 144115188075855892. Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains at the place of the deleted content. Also, make sure that the highlighted numbers above are the indexes of Ebony and Silver Rune Plate in case you added other items to the game prior to this tweak.

12) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 66 (4152 -> 4218)

13) Now we add the new rune plates to Clarissa of Pent, so that she can sew or take off capes from these. Open scripts.txt and find this piece of code under the script called armor_has_cape_capeless_version:

1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151712435 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151712438 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151712435 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151712438 3 0


14) Replace it with this:

1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151712435 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151712438 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151712435 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151712438 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713366 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713370 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713366 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713370 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713367 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713371 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713367 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713371 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713368 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713372 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713368 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713372 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713369 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713373 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713369 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713373 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713374 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713378 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713374 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713378 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713375 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713379 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713375 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713379 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713376 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713380 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713376 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713380 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713377 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713381 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713377 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713381 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713382 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713385 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713382 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713385 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713383 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713386 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713383 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713386 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713384 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713387 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713384 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713387 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713388 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713391 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713388 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713391 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713389 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713392 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713389 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713392 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713390 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713393 2133 2 1224979098644774913 288230376151713390 2133 2 1224979098644774914 288230376151713393 3 0 


The highlighted numbers above have to correspond to the indexes of the different rune plates. There are 4 highlighted numbers for each pair of capeless and caped Rune Plate variant, and the order of them is "Rune Plate (capeless)", "Rune Plate with Cape", "Rune Plate (capeless)", "Rune Plate with Cape". Adjust them if needed by the method shown in previous points.

15) At the beginning of the script (armor_has_cape_capeless_version), there is a counter that equals 222 by default. Increase it by 70 (222 -> 292)

16) The last thing to do is to physically add the Ebony and Silver Rune Plates to Aeldarian and Ithilrandir respectively, plus swap the helmet of the two to match with these. For that, find the following piece of code under the script called add_items_with_modifiers_to_npc_amongs_soldiers:

1543 3 1224979098644774912 4 288230376151712829 1544 3 1224979098644774912 4 29 1543 3 1224979098644774912 5 288230376151712432 1544 3 1224979098644774912 5 29 1543 3 1224979098644774912 6 288230376151712521 1544 3 1224979098644774912 6 26 1543 3 1224979098644774912 7 288230376151712472 1544 3 1224979098644774912 7 26 1543 3 1224979098644774912 8 288230376151711977 1544 3 1224979098644774912 8 36 2133 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639993 1532 1 1224979098644774912 1543 3 1224979098644774912 0 288230376151713099 1544 3 1224979098644774912 0 0 1543 3 1224979098644774912 1 288230376151713231 1544 3 1224979098644774912 1 27 1543 3 1224979098644774912 2 288230376151712870 1544 3 1224979098644774912 2 0 1543 3 1224979098644774912 3 288230376151712894 1544 3 1224979098644774912 3 42 1543 3 1224979098644774912 4 288230376151712826 1544 3 1224979098644774912 4 29 1543 3 1224979098644774912 5 288230376151712432 1544 3 1224979098644774912 5 29


And replace it with this:

1543 3 1224979098644774912 4 288230376151712826 1544 3 1224979098644774912 4 29 1543 3 1224979098644774912 5 288230376151713374 1544 3 1224979098644774912 5 29 1543 3 1224979098644774912 6 288230376151712521 1544 3 1224979098644774912 6 26 1543 3 1224979098644774912 7 288230376151712472 1544 3 1224979098644774912 7 26 1543 3 1224979098644774912 8 288230376151711977 1544 3 1224979098644774912 8 36 2133 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639993 1532 1 1224979098644774912 1543 3 1224979098644774912 0 288230376151713099 1544 3 1224979098644774912 0 0 1543 3 1224979098644774912 1 288230376151713231 1544 3 1224979098644774912 1 27 1543 3 1224979098644774912 2 288230376151712870 1544 3 1224979098644774912 2 0 1543 3 1224979098644774912 3 288230376151712894 1544 3 1224979098644774912 3 42 1543 3 1224979098644774912 4 288230376151712829 1544 3 1224979098644774912 4 29 1543 3 1224979098644774912 5 288230376151713366 1544 3 1224979098644774912 5 29


Watch for the gaps, so that exactly 1 remains before and after the replacement. The actual changes made are listed below. Once again, the highlighted numbers above have to correspond to the indexes of the following items respectively (in the same order):

Aeldarian:
Noldor_Knight_Helm_with_Hood -> Noldor_Knight_Helm (288230376151712826)
Mystical_Rune_Plate -> Ebony_Rune_Plate (288230376151713374)
Ithilrandir:
Noldor_Knight_Helm -> Noldor_Knight_Helm_with_Hood (288230376151712829)
Mystical_Rune_Plate -> Silver_Rune_Plate (288230376151713366)

Adjust them if necessary. These last changes would require a new game's start to take effect by default, but you can use the above savegame editor to make it happen to your current savegame. Or leave it be, as Aeldarian and Ithilrandir will still give you an Ebony and Silver Rune Plate each regardless, they just won't wear them yet.

Tweak 18 c)

To restore the original look of the Siege Crossbow from v3.7, and add in a new crossbow with new bolts using already existing textures

This tweak aims to restore that previous look of the Siege Crossbow, and in the meantime take the current design to create a new crossbow named "Ebon Crossbow", with some fitting bolts named "Ebony Bolts" to accompany it.

The stats of the Ebon Crossbow will be in between of the Siege Crossbow and the Mettenheim Arbalest:

cost: 7383
abundance: 50
accuracy: 92
speed: 38
shot speed: 84
damage: 93p

The stats of Ebony Bolts will be in between of Siege Bolts and Mettenheim Bolts:

cost: 2000
weight: 2.65
abundance: 10
ammo: 32
damage: +15p

Reasons for the above are:

Low variety of crossbows (especially high-end ones)
The original design of the Siege Crossbow goes better with regular, non-black plate armors:
Empire Armored Crossbowmen and Mercenary Sharpshooters with the original Siege Crossbow
Knights of the Ebony Gauntlet are meant to be the best crossbow units in the game. And yet they use a common crossbow.
The "upgrade" of Radiant Cross Plaguewardens is a bit questionable from Mercenary Sharpshooters, who perform better across the board
The current design of the Siege Crossbow should be used by units wearing black armor exclusively:
Knights of the Ebony Gauntlet and Radiant Cross Plaguewardens with the new Ebon Crossbow
Don't make Knights of the Ebony Gauntlet and Radiant Cross Plaguewardens too strong, only a tiny bit stronger in ranged fights

Files:

module.ini
item_kinds1.txt
(menus.txt)
troops.txt

1) Download this .zip file that contains the resource (.brf) and texture (.dds) files for the Siege Crossbow from v3.7: https://www.dropbox.com/s/eietmhvdtksyhl8/PoP_Ebon_Crossbow.zip?dl=0

2) Copy A2K_Stuff.brf to the Resources folder and arbalest1.dds to the Textures folder

3) In module.ini, find this line:

#load_mod_resource = A2K_Stuff


And remove the hashtag (#) from the beginning

4) Open item_kinds1.txt, and copy these two entries to almost at the end of the file, just before itm_items_end:

 itm_ebon_crossbow Ebon_Crossbow Ebon_Crossbow 1  snouz_crossbow_a 0  274792457 5637160960 7383 132106 3.750000 50 0 0 92 18 0 38 84 0 1 349 0
 0
0

 itm_ebony_bolts Ebony_Bolts Ebony_Bolts 4  crusade_bolt_mett 0  flying_missile 2305843009213693952  crusade_bolt_mett_bag 3458764513820540928  crusade_bolt_mett_bag 1152921504606846976  16842758 1879048192 2000 4398046511112 2.650000 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 63 32 271 0
 0
0


Make sure that there is 1, and only 1 empty line left between the different entries

5) Change the mesh of Siege_Crossbow from snouz_crossbow_a to arbalest

6) Increase the item count at the top of the file by 2 (1573 -> 1575)

7) Within Morgh's Editor, open up the Troops editor and

search for Knights of the Ebony Gauntlet: add Ebon_Crossbow and Ebony_Bolts to their item pool and remove Siege_Crossbow and Mettenheim_Bolts from there
search for Radiant Cross Plaguewardens: add Ebon_Crossbow to their item pool and remove Siege_Crossbow from there

8) Extend the cheatmenu's item count by 2 if you so desire, to include the recently added items. Open menus.txt and find these two lines with the highlighted numbers:

menu_cheat_find_item 4096 {!}Current_item_range:_{reg5}_to_{reg6} none 5 2031 1 1441151880758558775 2133 2 72057594037927941 144115188075856169 2120 3 72057594037927942 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 72057594037927942 288230376151713316 2106 2 72057594037927942 1 3
 mno_cheat_find_item_next_range  0  {!}Move_to_next_item_range.  6 2105 2 144115188075856169 96 4 0 30 2 144115188075856169 288230376151713316 2133 2 144115188075856169 0 3 0 2060 1 864691128455135264  .  mno_cheat_find_item_choose_this  0  {!}Choose_from_this_range.  9 1532 1 360287970189639684 2120 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713316


There are 3 instances of that 288230376151713316 number. Increase all of them by 2.

These 2 new items will be available as merchandise from weapon merchants.

Tweak 18 d)

To add a new body armor to the game: Kraken Plate - credits to Baltic Marauder and lconracl

The Kraken Riddari deserve another body armor to increase the variety of their appearance. A body armor that fits into the Fierdsvain design of course. That item is named Kraken Plate by default, which is recommended to be added as a variant beside the Kraken Platemail. Here's how it looks:

https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/951857305533807999/E942F9A5612993BCFF802B4BC4673A7E3152552F/

And how Kraken Riddari would look like with the increased variety:

https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/951857305533807772/175ED54A4FAB139F4DFFCF10B01E956A1598548C/

Files:

item_kinds1.txt
(menus.txt)
troops.txt

1) Download this .zip file that contains the necessary texture files and extract its content into your PoP module: https://www.dropbox.com/s/bx67f0k6d57ytne/Kraken%20Plate.zip?dl=0 Let the newer ACOK_other.brf file overwrite the previous one. All the previous content from it will remain in the game, don't worry.

2) Now open item_kinds1.txt, and copy this entry to almost at the end of the file, just before itm_items_end:

 itm_plate_kraken Kraken_Plate Kraken_Plate 1  kraken_cobra_plate 0  16842765 0 10516 973078948 25.000000 1 2 58 19 21 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0


Make sure that there is 1, and only 1 empty line left between the different entries.

3) Increase the item count at the top of the file by 1 (1573 -> 1574)

4) Extend the cheatmenu's item count by 1 if you so desire, to include the recently added item. Open menus.txt and find these two lines with the highlighted numbers:

menu_cheat_find_item 4096 {!}Current_item_range:_{reg5}_to_{reg6} none 5 2031 1 1441151880758558775 2133 2 72057594037927941 144115188075856169 2120 3 72057594037927942 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 72057594037927942 288230376151713316 2106 2 72057594037927942 1 3
 mno_cheat_find_item_next_range  0  {!}Move_to_next_item_range.  6 2105 2 144115188075856169 96 4 0 30 2 144115188075856169 288230376151713316 2133 2 144115188075856169 0 3 0 2060 1 864691128455135264  .  mno_cheat_find_item_choose_this  0  {!}Choose_from_this_range.  9 1532 1 360287970189639684 2120 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713316


There are 3 instances of that 288230376151713316 number. Increase all of them by 1.

5) Within Morgh's Editor, open up the Troops editor, search for Kraken Riddari, and add one instance of Kraken_Plate to their item pool.

6) Kraken Plate will be available as merchandise from armor merchants in Windholm, Valonbray and Javiksholm, with the same abundance and stats as Kraken Platemail.

Tweak 18 e)

To remove heraldic body armors from Pendor troops and with the help of 3 new dark armors, redesign these troops a bit - credits to Dare2Die

Heraldic body armors can look awfully when paired with a banner consisting of vibrant colors (e.g. jellow, pink or purple). This is especially true for Pendor troops, who have a black theme in general, with some white or grey mixed in. To ensure that Pendor troops will always look good and appealing, we will remove heraldic body armors from them in this tweak. And apparently add some other, rarely used body armors into their place, including 3 new ones, courtesy of Dare2Die. These will be available in all shops as merchandise. However to preserve the armor value of troops, changing those will be also needed (along with their cost)

The stats of the 3 new items:

Black Brigandine:
Weight: 20.0
Abundance: 60
Body armor: 47
Leg armor: 12
STR requirement: 9
Dark Mail and Plate:
Weight: 25.0
Abundance: 25
Body armor: 56
Leg armor: 15
STR requirement: 15
Black Mail and Plate:
Weight: 25.0
Abundance: 25
Body armor: 51
Leg armor: 19
STR requirement: 15

Screenshots:

https://i77.servimg.com/u/f77/19/75/99/36/pendor10.jpg
https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/751467055400568197/1162301A213D45D0D67F9A60161002969C8A4E01/
https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/751467055400568466/A0E9EA69CD35BFDB141D9D4332BB94D5A13933EA/
https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/751467055400568622/D87FF60731C04F2373FCC5AA56419C95B226C947/
https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/751467055400568808/24EA023BEB29E86FBA01FE1C4931496DE7A1A977/

Files:

module.ini
item_kinds1.txt
(menus.txt)
troops.txt

1) Download this .zip file that contains the necessary texture files and extract its content into your PoP module: https://www.dropbox.com/s/d48iedki0l3npxu/Pendor%20black%20armors.zip?dl=0

2) Open module.ini and add this entry to the end of the file:

load_mod_resource = Pendor_black_armor


3) Now open item_kinds1.txt, and copy these entries to almost the end of the file, just before itm_items_end:

 itm_brigandine_black Black_Brigandine Black_Brigandine 1  brigandine_black 0  16842765 0 2654 973078948 20.000000 60 0 47 12 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_dark_mail_plate Dark_Mail_and_Plate Dark_Mail_and_Plate 1  early_transitional_dark 0  16842765 0 6490 973078948 25.000000 25 0 56 15 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_black_mail_plate Black_Mail_and_Plate Black_Mail_and_Plate 1  early_transitional_black 0  16842765 0 6490 973078948 25.000000 25 0 51 19 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0


Make sure that there is 1, and only 1 empty line left between the different entries.

4) Increase the item count at the top of the file by 3 (1573 -> 1576)

5) Close the file, reopen it with the Item Editor of Morgh's Editor, and make the following adjustments:

Black_Brigandine_&_Plate:
Cost: 4000
Body armor: 52
Leg armor: 16
Black_Brigandine_&_Plate_with_Cape:
Cost: 4000
Body armor: 52
Leg armor: 16
White_&_Black_Platemail:
Cost: 8000
Head armor: 1
Body armor: 55
Leg armor: 17
Dark_Chain_Coat:
Cost: 3500
Body armor: 48
Leg armor: 17
Dark_Strapped_Mail_Coat:
Body armor: 47
Black_Mail_&_Plate:
Cost: 4000
Body armor: 50
Leg armor: 18

6) Then extend the cheatmenu's item count by 3 if you so desire, to include the recently added item. Open menus.txt and find these two lines with the highlighted numbers:

menu_cheat_find_item 4096 {!}Current_item_range:_{reg5}_to_{reg6} none 5 2031 1 1441151880758558775 2133 2 72057594037927941 144115188075856169 2120 3 72057594037927942 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 72057594037927942 288230376151713316 2106 2 72057594037927942 1 3
 mno_cheat_find_item_next_range  0  {!}Move_to_next_item_range.  6 2105 2 144115188075856169 96 4 0 30 2 144115188075856169 288230376151713316 2133 2 144115188075856169 0 3 0 2060 1 864691128455135264  .  mno_cheat_find_item_choose_this  0  {!}Choose_from_this_range.  9 1532 1 360287970189639684 2120 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713316


There are 3 instances of that 288230376151713316 number. Increase all of them by 3.

7) Lastly, with the help of the Troop Editor of Morgh's Editor, change the inventory of these Pendor troops as follows:

Pendor_Swordsman:

Heraldic_Brigandine -> Black_Brigandine (newly added)

Pendor_Spearman:

Heraldic_Brigandine -> Black_Brigandine (newly added)

Pendor_Heavy_Spearman:

Heraldic_Elite_Brigandine -> Dark_Mail_and_Plate (newly added)

Pendor_Man-at-Arms:

Heraldic_Mail -> Black_Brigandine_&_Plate_with_Cape

Pendor_Bladesman:

2x Heraldic_Mail_with_Tabard -> 2x White_&_Black_Platemail

Pendor_Cavalry:

Heraldic_Mail -> Dark_Chain_Coat

Pendor_Mtd._Man-at-Arms:

Heraldic_Mail_with_Leggings -> Black_Mail_and_Plate (newly added)
Visored_Bascinet -> Visored_Bascinet_with_Tail

Pendor_Knight:

Remove 2x Heraldic_Mail_&_Plate

Pendor_Foot_Knight:

Remove 1x Heraldic_Mail_&_Plate

Pendor_Heavy_Bowman:

Heraldic_Mail -> Dark_Strapped_Mail_Coat

Pendor_Armored_Bowman:

Heraldic_Mail_with_Surcoat -> Black_Brigandine_&_Plate

Pendor_Noble_Bowman:

Heraldic_Mail_with_Leggings -> Black_Mail_&_Plate (unused item)

Tweak 18 f)

To add a small firearm pack - credits to Llew2 (OSP models) and Dalion (coding, adjustments)

This tweak contains the following:

Matchlock Musket (long-range musket with melee mode that can't be fired on horseback, available as a rare merchandise)
Blunderbuss (medieval shotgun with melee mode, available as a rare merchandise)
Flintlock Pistol (4-shot semi-automatic pistol with melee mode, available as a rare merchandise)
Fitting particles and sound effects to go along with the above weapons
A better bullet model (more visible too)
A script that will automatically show the missile speed and how many shots a weapon has remaining before it needs a reload in your inventory, if it is a crossbow or firearm (supports new items as well)
'pistols' category added to the equipping menu of your CKO
Rufio Vincente de Villaviciosia unlocking the aforementioned 3 firearms for your CKO upon choosing to take a large pouch of diamonds

Showcase video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yuh8NcmPFD4

Files:

module.ini
particle_systems.txt
sounds.txt
item_kinds1.txt
menus.txt
quick_strings.txt
scripts.txt
conversation.txt
triggers.txt
(troops.txt)

1) Download this .zip file (that contains the necessary resource, texture and sound files) and extract its content into your PoP module: https://www.dropbox.com/s/9km9r0t3myjoene/Firearm%20Pack.zip?dl=0

2) Open module.ini and add this entry to the end of the file:

load_mod_resource = firearm_pack


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end!

3) Then open particle_systems.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line by 6 (64 -> 70), and add the following to the end of the file, in a similar manner as other entries are in there:

psys_bullet_hit 12816 prtcl_dust_a  300 1.000000 8.000000 0.200000 1.000000 20.000000 
0.000000 1.000000   1.000000 0.000000
0.000000 0.950000   1.000000 0.950000
0.000000 0.900000   1.000000 0.900000
0.000000 0.700000   1.000000 0.700000
0.000000 3.000000   0.800000 5.000000
0.000000 0.000000 0.000000   0.000000 0.000000 10.000000   3.000000 
120.000000 0.200000 
psys_flash_pan 530 prt_sparks_mesh_1  75 0.200000 0.200000 0.030000 30.000000 2.000000 
0.500000 0.800000   1.000000 0.000000
0.500000 1.000000   1.000000 0.900000
0.500000 0.600000   1.000000 0.300000
0.500000 0.200000   1.000000 0.000000
0.000000 0.150000   0.400000 0.300000
0.040000 0.040000 0.010000   0.000000 0.500000 0.000000   0.000000 
150.000000 0.000000 
psys_musket_sparks 512 prt_sparks_mesh_1  10 0.700000 0.200000 0.003000 10.000000 3.300000 
0.100000 0.800000   1.000000 0.000000
0.500000 1.000000   1.000000 0.900000
0.500000 0.600000   1.000000 0.100000
0.500000 0.200000   1.000000 0.000000
0.100000 0.050000   1.000000 0.050000
0.100000 0.100000 0.100000   0.000000 0.000000 0.900000   0.000000 
0.000000 0.000000 
psys_pistol_flare 512 prt_mesh_fire_1  30 0.200000 0.200000 0.000000 10.000000 0.000000 
0.000000 1.000000   1.000000 0.000000
0.000000 1.000000   0.400000 0.700000
0.000000 0.500000   0.400000 0.100000
0.000000 0.300000   0.400000 0.200000
0.000000 0.400000   1.000000 1.000000
0.040000 0.040000 0.010000   0.000000 3.000000 0.000000   0.200000 
200.000000 0.200000 
psys_flash 512 prt_sparks_mesh_1  100 0.300000 0.100000 -0.003000 50.000000 3.300000 
0.100000 0.800000   1.000000 0.000000
0.500000 1.000000   1.000000 0.900000
0.500000 0.600000   1.000000 0.100000
0.500000 0.200000   1.000000 0.000000
0.000000 0.900000   0.750000 0.100000
0.100000 0.200000 0.100000   0.000000 -2.000000 0.000000   0.050000 
100.000000 0.500000 
psys_bullet_hit_objects 12800 prtcl_dust_a  500 3.500000 6.000000 0.000000 2.000000 40.000000 
0.000000 1.000000   1.000000 0.000000
0.000000 0.950000   1.000000 0.950000
0.000000 0.900000   1.000000 0.900000
0.000000 0.800000   1.000000 0.800000
0.000000 1.000000   0.750000 10.000000
0.000000 0.000000 0.000000   0.000000 -15.000000 0.000000   1.000000 
100.000000 0.200000 


Make sure there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

4) Now open sounds.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 3 (1342 -> 1345), and put the following 3 entries after fl_pistol.WAV 2720, or if there is already an entry due to another tweak, then to before the secondary counter from where entries don't have an extra space before them any longer:

 shot_pistol.wav 2720
 shot_matchlock.wav 2720
 shot_blunderbuss.wav 2720


So that the result will look like this:

 tavernsound.ogg 2182
 fl_pistol.WAV 2720
 shot_pistol.wav 2720
 shot_matchlock.wav 2720
 shot_blunderbuss.wav 2720
639
snd_click 769 1 0 0
snd_tutorial_1 1801 1 1 0


5) Next, increase that highlighted secondary counter (639) by 3 (639 -> 642), and copy the following 3 entries to the end of the file, as a new line each:

snd_flintlock_pistol_shot 2720 1 1342 0 
snd_matchlock_shot 2720 1 1343 0 
snd_blunderbuss_shot 2720 1 1344 0 


Make sure that there remains and empty line at the very end of the file! In case you added another sound sample to sounds.txt as shown in point 4), also make sure that the highlighted numbers correspond to the following:

1342: line number of shot_pistol.wav 2720 - 3 (by default, that being 1345 - 3 = 1342)
1343: line number of shot_matchlock.wav 2720 - 3 (by default, that being 1346 - 3 = 1343)
1344: line number of shot_blunderbuss.wav 2720 - 3 (by default, that being 1347 - 3 = 1344)

6) Now open item_kinds1.txt, increase the item count at the top of the file by 6 (1573 -> 1579), and copy these entries to almost the end of the file, just before itm_items_end:

 itm_matchlock Matchlock_Musket Matchlock_Musket 2  matchlock_1 0  matchlock_1_inv 1152921504606846976  4925816931942417 4222680581013504 8000 132102 3.500000 1 0 0 300 0 0 50 380 0 1 417 0
 0
1
-51.000000  8 600 1 1152921504606847616 720 2 1 -10 721 2 1 107 1969 3 1008806316530991169 1 15 1969 3 1008806316530991172 1 15 1969 3 1008806316530991170 1 15 725 2 1 -180 1969 3 1008806316530991173 1 10 

 itm_matchlock_m Matchlock_Musket Matchlock_Musket 1  matchlock_1 0  2252074698149892 40250927868808704 8000 0 3.500000 1 0 0 0 0 0 90 0 108 0 534 538
 0
0

 itm_blunderbuss Blunderbuss Blunderbuss 2  blunderbus 0  blunderbus_inv 1152921504606846976  4838457361 264438452584448 12000 132102 3.000000 1 0 0 300 0 0 40 180 0 1 391 0
 0
1
-51.000000  83 600 1 1152921504606847617 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2124 1 1 700 2 2 1 1726 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 0 2709 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774915 1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 0 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 2133 2 1224979098644774918 5 6 3 1224979098644774919 0 4 2147483679 2 1224979098644774915 0 1804 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774921 18 1825 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774922 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1 6 3 1224979098644774924 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774924 2147483679 2 1224979098644774925 -1 2147483679 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774920 1570 2 1224979098644774926 1224979098644774925 31 2 1224979098644774926 18 2105 2 1224979098644774923 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774923 1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774919 2133 2 1224979098644774915 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774917 0 2133 2 1224979098644774917 288230376151712901 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774929 0 1224979098644774918 2147483678 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774918 2136 3 1224979098644774930 -3 3 723 2 1 1224979098644774930 2136 3 1224979098644774931 -3 3 725 2 1 1224979098644774931 2136 3 1224979098644774932 -100 100 721 2 1 1224979098644774932 1829 7 1224979098644774912 1 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774917 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774919 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 -1 2147483679 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774928 31 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774917 1825 3 1224979098644774933 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774927 1224979098644774933 3 0 1727 3 1224979098644774934 1224979098644774912 1 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774934 1224979098644774927 2133 2 1224979098644774934 1224979098644774927 3 0 2106 2 1224979098644774918 1 2121 3 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774934 1224979098644774918 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774935 0 1776 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 1224979098644774935 5 0 1776 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774917 0 3 0 720 2 2 -10 721 2 2 72 1969 3 1008806316530991171 2 15 1969 3 1008806316530991169 2 15 1969 3 1008806316530991170 2 15 725 2 2 45 1969 3 1008806316530991136 2 10 

 itm_blunderbuss_m Blunderbuss Blunderbuss 1  blunderbus 0  2252074698149891 263888728752368 12000 0 3.000000 1 0 0 0 0 0 96 0 72 0 536 540
 0
0

 itm_pistol Flintlock_Pistol Flintlock_Pistol 1  fl_pistol 0  4836360208 16976127131648 10000 132102 1.00000 1 0 0 300 0 0 80 250 0 4 356 0
 0
1
-51.000000  6 600 1 1152921504606847615 720 2 1 27 721 2 1 36 1969 3 1008806316530991169 1 15 1969 3 1008806316530991170 1 15 1969 3 1008806316530991136 1 5

 itm_pistol_m Flintlock_Pistol Flintlock_Pistol 1  fl_pistol_inv 0  2252074696052738 16495121793038 10000 0 1.00000 1 0 0 0 0 0 110 0 38 0 512 533
 0
0


Make sure that there is 1, and only 1 empty line left between the different entries. In case of Blunderbuss (itm_blunderbuss), you can also control the scatter range and the amount of missiles fired at once. The 5 determines both the number of missiles fired and the amount of bullets taken. The -3 3 is the vertical spread range, while the -3 3 is the horizontal one. With the default setup, missiles scatter in form of a square. You may change that, but keep in mind that the difference between (-3,3) and (-4,4) may be bigger than you think.

7) Then, find the entry of Bullets in item_kinds1.txt:

 itm_bullets_1 Bullets Bullets 4  pa_pop_bullets_1 0  pa_pop_flying_bullet 2305843009213693952  pa_pop_bullets_flask 3458764513820540928  pa_pop_bullets_flask_inv 1152921504606846976  16810002 805306368 100 4398046511104 2.500000 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 50 269 0
 0
0


And replace it with this:

 itm_bullets_1 Bullets Bullets 4  pa_pop_bullets_1 0  flying_bullet 2305843009213693952  pa_pop_bullets_flask 3458764513820540928  pa_pop_bullets_flask_inv 1152921504606846976  16875538 805306368 1000 4398046511104 0.200000 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 60 286 0
 0
1
-52.000000  11 2072 1 1224979098644774912 4 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 3 1969 3 1008806316530991168 1 5 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774912 2 31 2 1224979098644774912 4 1969 3 1008806316530991169 1 20 1969 3 1008806316530991134 1 5 3 0 


8) Now we extend the cheatmenu's item count by 6, to include the recently added items. Open menus.txt and find these two lines with the highlighted numbers:

menu_cheat_find_item 4096 {!}Current_item_range:_{reg5}_to_{reg6} none 5 2031 1 1441151880758558775 2133 2 72057594037927941 144115188075856169 2120 3 72057594037927942 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 72057594037927942 288230376151713316 2106 2 72057594037927942 1 3
 mno_cheat_find_item_next_range  0  {!}Move_to_next_item_range.  6 2105 2 144115188075856169 96 4 0 30 2 144115188075856169 288230376151713316 2133 2 144115188075856169 0 3 0 2060 1 864691128455135264  .  mno_cheat_find_item_choose_this  0  {!}Choose_from_this_range.  9 1532 1 360287970189639684 2120 3 1224979098644774912 144115188075856169 96 2110 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713316


There are 3 instances of that 288230376151713316 number. Increase all of them by 6 (288230376151713316 -> 288230376151713322)

9) Open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter in the first line of the file by 2 (3139 -> 3141), and add the following 2 entries to the end of the file, as a new line each:

qstr_Shots_before_reload: Shots_before_reload:_{reg21}
qstr_Fires_bucksot Fires_buckshot


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end of the file!

10) Then, open scripts.txt, find the script called game_get_item_extra_text and increase the operation counter at the beginning of its body by 14 (113 -> 127). Then find this piece within:

23 2 1224979098644774912 1 23 2 1224979098644774913 2 23 2 1224979098644774914 3


And add this piece right after it, separated by 1 gap from each side:

4 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 1570 2 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 9 1073741855 2 1224979098644774918 17 31 2 1224979098644774918 16 2710 2 72057594037927957 1224979098644774912 60 1 1585267068834417731 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 0 31 2 1224979098644774912 288230376151713318 60 1 1585267068834417732 2075 1 8686224 3 0


11) Still in scripts.txt find this piece of code:

2106 2 1224979098644774919 10 6 3 1224979098644774921 0 288230376151713316


Increase that 288230376151713316 by 6 (288230376151713316 -> 288230376151713322). The resulting value should correspond to 288230376151711744 + last_item_ID + 1 (check with Morgh's Editor if you are unsure).

12) And now we add the 'pistols' category to the equipping menu of the CKO. Open conversation.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (4152 -> 4153), then find this line:

dlga_pop2_war_room_buy_weapons_choice:pop2_war_room_buy_weapons_steward.12 69631 1026  0 Bullets.  1027  3 2133 2 144115188075856060 18 2133 2 144115188075856061 10000000 2133 2 144115188075856062 1 NO_VOICEOVER 


Replace it with these two:

dlga_pop2_war_room_buy_weapons_choice:pop2_war_room_buy_weapons_steward.12 69631 1026  0 Pistols.  1027  3 2133 2 144115188075856060 16 2133 2 144115188075856061 10000000 2133 2 144115188075856062 1 NO_VOICEOVER 
dlga_pop2_war_room_buy_weapons_choice:pop2_war_room_buy_weapons_steward.13 69631 1026  0 Bullets.  1027  3 2133 2 144115188075856060 18 2133 2 144115188075856061 10000000 2133 2 144115188075856062 1 NO_VOICEOVER 


13) Still in conversation.txt, find this line:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_threat 69631 1659  1 32 2 144115188075855914 0 Very_well,_I_will_accept_a_pile_of_diamonds._You_are_free_to_go.  1660  13 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639990 547 3 288230376151711952 65 0 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711952 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151713100 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639991 547 3 288230376151712891 65 0 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151712891 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711969 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Replace it with this:

dlga_prisoner_chat_sig3:prisoner_chat_threat 69631 1659  1 32 2 144115188075855914 0 Very_well,_I_will_accept_a_pile_of_diamonds._You_are_free_to_go.  1660  19 1616 3 648518346341351424 144115188075855892 1 1530 2 360287970189639680 288230376151711875 4 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639990 547 3 288230376151711952 65 0 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711952 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151713100 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639991 547 3 288230376151712891 65 0 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151712891 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151711969 5 0 31 2 144115188075855892 360287970189639996 547 3 288230376151713316 65 0 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151713316 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151713318 1 2 936748722493063873 288230376151713320 3 0 NO_VOICEOVER 


14) Only one thing left to do: merchants don't have items of type 'musket', 'pistol' or 'bullets' in their stock by default. We need to add them. To do that, open triggers.txt and find this piece:

1513 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 6 2


Replace it with this:

1513 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 6 2 2136 3 1224979098644774915 1 51 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 2 1513 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 16 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 5 1513 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 17 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 7 1513 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 18 1 3 0


Then increase the counter at the beginning of the given trigger by 11 (19 -> 30). The pair of 1 51 is the predefined random roll range which will serve as a basis to determine the chances for the different pistols, muskets and bullets to appear in shops. The above method by default would guarantee 1 of each kind to appear in shops as a bare minimum, regardless of their abundance value (it only adjusts the appearance ratio of different items of the same type). That's why further measures are required. The lower end of the range will be the first number, and the higher end of the range will be the second number minus 1, making it an actual range of [1-50]. The distribution (through a 'less than' condition) will be as follows:

2: 1 instance of a Flintlock Pistol in stock if 1 gets rolled in the range of [1-50] (2% chance)
5: 1 instance of a musket (Blunderbuss or Matchlock Musket) in stock if 2, 3 or 4 gets rolled in the range of [1-50] (6% chance)
7: 1 instance of Bullets in stock if 5 or 6 gets rolled in the range of [1-50] (4% chance)

You may also enable the 'merchandise' flag for the Arquebus to appear in shops now, by using the Item Editor of Morgh's Editor. Regarding further details about how to change the stock composition of merchants in general, see the respective tweak under the same section (To change the refreshing rate and components of merchants' stock).

15) Optionally, you might want to increase the firearm proficiencies of Donavan, as creating a full-blown firearm CKO is now more possible than ever and he is the only, yet not the greatest trainer for that. He currently has 250 firearm profs, so anything between 300 and 400 sounds reasonable for his standings. To do that, either use the Troop Editor of Morgh's Editor (you need to start a new game) or you can use one of the above savegame editors to make the changes happen to your current savegame.

16) Lastly, here are the highlighted numbers from above to be adjusted - according to the following formulas -, in case you added another tweak touching the amount of entries in the given file:

1152921504606847615 (point 6), itm_pistol): 1152921504606846976 + № snd_flintlock_pistol_shot from point 5) (sounds.txt, line - counter_in_2nd_line_of_the_file - 4 in Notepad++) (e.g. 1152921504606846976 + 1988 - 1345 - 4 = 1152921504606847615)
1152921504606847616 (point 6), itm_matchlock): 1152921504606846976 + № snd_matchlock_shot from point 5) (sounds.txt, line - counter_in_2nd_line_of_the_file - 4 in Notepad++) (e.g. 1152921504606846976 + 1989 - 1345 - 4 = 1152921504606847616)
1152921504606847617 (point 6), itm_blunderbuss): 1152921504606846976 + № snd_blunderbuss_shot from point 5) (sounds.txt, line - counter_in_2nd_line_of_the_file - 4 in Notepad++) (e.g. 1152921504606846976 + 1990 - 1345 - 4 = 1152921504606847617)
1008806316530991168 (point 7): 1008806316530991104 + № of psys_bullet_hit from point 3) (particle_systems.txt, particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++)
1008806316530991169 (point 6), itm_matchlock, itm_blunderbuss, itm_pistol; point 7): 1008806316530991104 + № of psys_flash_pan from point 3) (particle_systems.txt, particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++)
1008806316530991170 (point 6), itm_matchlock, itm_blunderbuss, itm_pistol): 1008806316530991104 + № of psys_musket_sparks from point 3) (particle_systems.txt, particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++)
1008806316530991171 (point 6), itm_blunderbuss): 1008806316530991104 + № of psys_pistol_flare from point 3) (particle_systems.txt, particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++)
1008806316530991172 (point 6), itm_matchlock): 1008806316530991104 + № of psys_flash from point 3) (particle_systems.txt, particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++)
1008806316530991173 (point 6), itm_matchlock): 1008806316530991104 + № of psys_bullet_hit_objects from point 3) (particle_systems.txt, particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 (point 10): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_Shots_before_reload from point 9) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417732 (point 10): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_Fires_bucksot from point 9) (quick_strings.txt, line-2 in Notepad++)
288230376151713316 (point 13, 2 instances): 288230376151711744 + № of itm_matchlock from point 6) (item_kinds1.txt, entry number in Morgh's Editor)
288230376151713318 (point 10; point 13): 288230376151711744 + № of itm_blunderbuss from point 6) (item_kinds1.txt, entry number in Morgh's Editor)
288230376151713320 (point 13): 288230376151711744 + № of itm_pistol from point 6) (item_kinds1.txt, entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Tweak 18 g)

To disable the rotting process of meat products (pork, chicken and beef) - credits to VonDegurechaff

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find the trigger that starts with 24.000000 and has 1540 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 in it.

2) Replace that entire script/line with this:

24.000000  0


Tweak 18 h)

To increase the quantity and morale bonus of food and drinks - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Files:

item_kinds1.txt
scripts.txt

1) To make food and drinks last two times longer or take up half the inventory space for the same price. Either way, basically we just double the food and drink amount for double the price. Except for Baggage Train, because item quantity being higher than 255 will cause a bug, where each stack replenishes itself. But if you want to have infinite consumables on purpose, then there you have it! Open the Item Editor of Morgh's Editor, and search for the following goods:

Date Fruit
Wine
Ale
Smoked Fish
Cheese
Honey
Sausages
Cabbages
Dried Meat
Fruits
Grapes
Olives
Grain
Beef
Bread
Chicken
Pork
Butter

Double the 'cost' and 'amount' for all of them. Don't forget to 'update' each item before moving to the next one, and in the end, save your changes. The resulting entries are as follows, you can copy them over for an easier application:

 itm_raw_date_fruit Date_Fruit Date_Fruit 1  date_inventory 0  34144267 0 240 0 10.000000 100 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20 0 0
 0
0

 itm_wine Wine Wine 1  amphora_slim 0  33619979 0 440 0 30.000000 60 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_ale Ale Ale 1  ale_barrel 0  33619979 0 240 0 30.000000 70 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_smoked_fish Smoked_Fish Smoked_Fish 1  smoked_fish 0  34144267 0 120 0 15.000000 110 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_cheese Cheese Cheese 1  cheese_b_new 0  34144267 0 140 0 6.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 60 0 0
 0
0

 itm_honey Honey Honey 1  honey_pot 0  34144267 0 440 0 5.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 60 0 0
 0
0

 itm_sausages Sausages Sausages 1  sausages 0  34144267 0 160 0 10.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 80 0 0
 0
0

 itm_cabbages Cabbages Cabbages 1  necturus_veggi_cabbage 0  34144267 0 60 0 15.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_dried_meat Dried_Meat Dried_Meat 1  smoked_meat 0  34144267 0 160 0 15.000000 100 70 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_apples Fruits Fruits 1  fruit_basket 0  34144267 0 88 0 20.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_raw_grapes Grapes Grapes 1  grapes_inventory 0  33619979 0 140 0 10.000000 90 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20 0 0
 0
0

 itm_raw_olives Olives Olives 1  olive_inventory 0  33619979 0 200 0 10.000000 90 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 20 0 0
 0
0

 itm_grain Grain Grain 1  wheat_sack 0  33619979 0 60 0 30.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_cattle_meat Beef Beef 1  raw_meat 0  34144267 0 160 0 20.000000 100 80 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_bread Bread Bread 1  bread_a_new 0  34144267 0 100 0 30.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_chicken Chicken Chicken 1  trade_chicken_new 0  34144267 0 180 0 10.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_pork Pork Pork 1  trade_pork_new 0  34144267 0 140 0 15.000000 100 70 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 0 0
 0
0

 itm_butter Butter Butter 1  butter_pot 0  34144267 0 300 0 6.000000 110 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 60 0 0
 0
0


2) To change the morale bonus of foods and drinks, open scripts.txt and under the initialize_item_info script, find the following pieces of code for each item:

Date Fruit:

507 3 288230376151711846 1 12


Wine:

507 3 288230376151711848 1 10


Ale:

507 3 288230376151711849 1 8


Smoked Fish

507 3 288230376151711850 1 8


Cheese:

507 3 288230376151711851 1 10


Honey:

507 3 288230376151711852 1 12


Sausages:

507 3 288230376151711853 1 10


Cabbages:

507 3 288230376151711854 1 4


Dried Meat:

507 3 288230376151711855 1 10


Fruits:

507 3 288230376151711856 1 8


Grapes:

507 3 288230376151711857 1 6


Olives:

507 3 288230376151711858 1 2


Grain:

507 3 288230376151711859 1 4


Beef:

507 3 288230376151711860 1 14


Bread:

507 3 288230376151711861 1 16


Chicken:

507 3 288230376151711862 1 16


Pork:

507 3 288230376151711863 1 12


Butter:

507 3 288230376151711864 1 8


Baggage Train:

507 3 288230376151711865 1 60


The numbers in bold above are the morale bonuses of foods and drinks. Change them to your liking. Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the highlighted item constants from above in order to find the given foods and drinks. So replace the 288230376151711846 etc. with:

288230376151711744 + № of a food/drink from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

Lastly, leave out the morale bonuses from the search, as they are likely different in other mods. So for example, just search for: 507 3 288230376151711846 1

Tweak 18 i)

To allow the consuming of Ale and Wine - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This tweak will leave Wine and Ale as 'drinks' for feasts, in order to not mess things up. But when it comes to consuming them by you and your troops on the world map, they will act as foods if you apply this tweak. Without any penalties if you only have these two baverages and no actual food in your inventory. To change other stats like weight, use Morgh's Editor.

Files:

scripts.txt
simple_triggers.txt

1) In scripts.txt, under the scripts called game_get_item_extra_text, get_player_party_morale_values and consume_food, find the following instance:

288230376151711850 288230376151711866


The two numbers equal to the following and have to be adjusted accordingly in case of other mods in order to find the 3 instances:

288230376151711850: 288230376151711744 + № of Smoked Fish in item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
288230376151711866: 288230376151711744 + № of the last food +1 (the item after Baggage Train in PoP, thus Supplies) in item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)

This is the range for items marked as food. We are going to extend this range to include Wine and Ale. You will find only 1 of the above instance under each script.

2) For all 3 instances in total, decrease the highlighted 288230376151711850 by 2 (or by as much as it's needed to lower the range to include wine and ale), making it 288230376151711848 in case of PoP. This will add wine and ale into the "food range".

3) Now open up simple_triggers.txt, where you will find 2 instances of the same 288230376151711850 288230376151711866 instance in the entire file. They will be under the trigger that is responsible for consuming food.

4) Once again, decrease both 288230376151711850 to 288230376151711848 in order to extend the range.

Tweak 18 j)

To remove the restriction of buying 1 baggage train at a time from tavernkeepers - credits to Dalion

By default, you can only buy a baggage train from a tavernkeeper (costs 2 pieces of Various Loot) if you don't have one in your inventory already. Effectively, you are restricted to buy only one at a time. With this tweak, that will be no longer the case.

File: conversation.txt

1) First, find this piece:

dlga_tavernkeeper_talk:tavernkeeper_supplies 69631 1151  0 I_am_looking_for_supplies.  1175  66


2) Increase that 66 by 1 (66 -> 67), then find this piece:

2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 3 0 3 0 3 0


3) And replace it with this:

2133 2 1224979098644774913 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927969 0


Tweak 18 k)

To prevent Ullr Vetr Manifest from disappearing when Wolfbode the Slayer gets defeated - credits to VonDegurechaff

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find and delete this piece of code:

5 0 31 2 144115188075856142 1 2310 2 1224979098644774912 576460752303423556 31 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 144115188075856142 2 4 0 1073741974 1 288230376151712869 151 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712869 1531 2 360287970189639680 288230376151712869 1106 1 1585267068834416806 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 0 6 3 1224979098644774917 360287970189640185 360287970189640205 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 151 2 1224979098644774917 288230376151712869 1531 2 1224979098644774917 288230376151712869 2322 2 2 1224979098644774917 2325 2 10 288230376151712869 1106 1 1585267068834416806 1106 1 1585267068834416807 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 6 3 1224979098644774918 360287970189640417 360287970189640493 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 1540 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774918 6 3 1224979098644774920 0 1224979098644774919 1541 3 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774918 1224979098644774920 31 2 1224979098644774921 288230376151712869 1531 2 1224979098644774918 288230376151712869 2322 2 2 1224979098644774918 2325 2 10 288230376151712869 1106 1 1585267068834416806 1106 1 1585267068834416808 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 6 3 1224979098644774922 360287970189640511 1060 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 1540 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774922 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774919 1541 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774923 31 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151712869 1531 2 1224979098644774922 288230376151712869 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 1540 2 1224979098644774919 360287970189640766 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774919 1541 3 1224979098644774924 360287970189640766 1224979098644774923 31 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151712869 1531 2 360287970189640766 288230376151712869 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 1540 2 1224979098644774919 360287970189640768 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774919 1541 3 1224979098644774924 360287970189640768 1224979098644774923 31 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151712869 1531 2 360287970189640768 288230376151712869 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 6 3 1224979098644774922 360287970189640875 360287970189639684 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 1540 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774922 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774919 1541 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774923 31 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151712869 1531 2 1224979098644774922 288230376151712869 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 3 0 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 6 3 1224979098644774922 360287970189640176 360287970189640179 31 2 1224979098644774916 0 1540 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774922 6 3 1224979098644774923 0 1224979098644774919 1541 3 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774923 31 2 1224979098644774924 288230376151712869 1531 2 1224979098644774922 288230376151712869 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774919 0 3 0 3 0 3 0 


2) Make sure that only 1 gap remains at the place of the deleted part

3) Then find this part at the beginning of the line:

24.000000  114 4 0 31 2


4) And change that 114 to 21

Tweak 18 l)

To empower the Ullr Vetr Manifest with an area of effect damage - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

The main focus of this tweak will be to empower the Ullr Vetr Manifest in order to justify it being a god's manifestation. Whenever an arrow is fired from this bow, the projectile will explode at the location of the impact and inflict damage on everyone within a radius of 3.5m, except for the one who shot the arrow. There are no exceptions for friends or foe, only the owner of the bow will be protected. As such, if you give it to a companion, try not to be within the radius of its destruction. If you feel like it, you can add the same effect to any bow, crossbow or throwing weapon of your choice too.

File: item_kinds1.txt

1) Open the Item Editor of Morgh's Editor, and navigate to the entry of UllrVetr_Manifest (#1125). There is a little box below the 'Flags' tab called 'Trigger'. Change the default 0 value to 1, and paste the following trigger to the (supposedly) empty box below:

-51.000000  2 2071 1 1224979098644774912 505 3 1224979098644774912 225 1


The result should look like this: https://i.imgur.com/i9WWbao.png. Lastly, click on the "Update Item" button.

2) Then, filter the type of items shown to be arrows only ("Filter items (type)" -> "type arrows"). In the same way as previously, add the following trigger to all 13 arrows, starting from Arrows (#1138) up to Noldor Arrows (#1150):

-52.000000  18 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 -1 545 3 1224979098644774912 225 1 700 2 10 1 1969 3 1008806316530991158 10 40 599 2 1152921504606847614 10 1714 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 2124 1 100 12 1 1224979098644774914 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774912 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1702 1 1224979098644774914 1710 2 11 1224979098644774914 710 3 1224979098644774915 10 11 2147483680 2 1224979098644774915 350 1722 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 175 288230376151712869 3 0 505 3 1224979098644774912 225 0


The 350 is the radius around the landing spot of the projectile within damage is inflicted to any unit, expressed in centimeters. The 175 is the amount of raw damage dealt (armor soak factors will still kick in), while the 288230376151712869 is the weapon that the damage calculation is based upon (in theory, but I couldn't see a difference with other weapons set). In this case it corresponds to Ullr Vetr Manifest: 288230376151711744 (item constant) + 1125 (entry number in Morgh's Item Editor). Change these numbers to your liking! Don't forget to update each item right after you've inserted the trigger! Lastly, click on the "Save Changes" button and you are done.

3) Now to ranged weapons in general if you don't mind creating OP stuff. In case of crossbows and bows - as you may have noticed - the first trigger has to be added to the weapon (point 1) and the second to the projectile (point 2). Throwing weapons are both the weapon and the projectile, so you need to add both triggers from point 1) & 2) to the item of your choice (e.g. Stones, to essentially make grenades). In that case, don't forget to adjust the aforementioned 'Trigger' counter to 2! If there is a trigger already in case of ranged weapons or projectiles, then just increase the trigger counter by 1 and paste the above pieces to below the existing trigger(s), as a new line each.

4) Lastly, in case of other mods, you'll also need to make the following adjustments in order to have a correct trigger for point 2). So, replace:

1008806316530991158 with the number you got for: 1008806316530991104 + № of psys_village_fire_big from particle_systems.txt (particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++)
1152921504606847614 with the number you got for: 1152921504606846976 + № of snd_pistol_shot from sounds.txt (line - counter_in_2nd_line_of_the_file - 4 in Notepad++)

Tweak 18 m)

To make any ranged weapon fire multiple projectiles - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

This tweak allows you to add a multishot effect to any ranged weapon. The added missiles will use the same direction that your crosshair indicates. The below script is totally universal: not only it does not require any adaptation for other version, but it also works for any other mod as is! This is what it does more specifically:

Finds what kind and which ammo you are currently using exactly
Adds more instances of it to the launching spot, with the same speed but with a slightly spreaded out position each (in an xyz space). Therefore, the first missiles can break the enemy's shield and the next ones can actually do damage to the unit
Reduce your ammo count after each shot by the exact same amount as the number of missiles fired, to somewhat preserve the balance

File: item_kinds1.txt

1) Open the Item Editor of Morgh's Editor, and navigate to the entry of a ranged weapon of your choice (#1107 - #1136 and #1158 - #1180). There is a little box below the 'Flags' tab called 'Trigger'. Change the default 0 value to 1, and paste the following trigger to the empty box below:

-51.000000  119 2071 1 1224979098644774912 2124 1 1 1726 3 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 0 1570 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 2709 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 2133 2 1224979098644774916 0 2133 2 1224979098644774917 1 2133 2 1224979098644774918 5 6 3 1224979098644774919 0 4 2147483679 2 1224979098644774917 0 1804 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774921 1224979098644774920 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 8 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774921 5 1825 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2147483679 2 1224979098644774922 0 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774919 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 9 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774921 6 1825 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774922 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 6 3 1224979098644774927 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774927 2147483679 2 1224979098644774928 -1 2147483679 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774920 1570 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774928 31 2 1224979098644774929 6 2105 2 1224979098644774926 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774926 1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774919 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 5 0 1073741855 2 1224979098644774914 16 31 2 1224979098644774914 17 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774913 31 2 1224979098644774921 18 1825 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774922 0 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774926 1 6 3 1224979098644774927 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774927 2147483679 2 1224979098644774928 -1 2147483679 2 1224979098644774928 1224979098644774920 1570 2 1224979098644774929 1224979098644774928 31 2 1224979098644774929 18 2105 2 1224979098644774926 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774926 1 2133 2 1224979098644774916 1 3 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 1 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774919 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774914 10 31 2 1224979098644774921 10 31 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774913 1825 3 1224979098644774922 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2147483679 2 1224979098644774922 0 2133 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774922 2133 2 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774920 2133 2 1224979098644774925 1224979098644774919 2133 2 1224979098644774917 0 3 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774930 0 1224979098644774918 2147483678 2 1224979098644774930 1224979098644774918 2136 3 1224979098644774931 -1 1 723 2 1 1224979098644774931 2136 3 1224979098644774932 -1 1 725 2 1 1224979098644774932 2136 3 1224979098644774933 -100 100 721 2 1 1224979098644774933 1829 7 1224979098644774912 1 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 0 1224979098644774924 0 3 0 6 3 1224979098644774919 0 4 1804 3 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2147483679 2 1224979098644774920 -1 2147483679 2 1224979098644774919 1224979098644774925 31 2 1224979098644774920 1224979098644774924 1825 3 1224979098644774934 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774919 2105 2 1224979098644774923 1224979098644774934 3 0 1727 3 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774912 1 4 0 32 2 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774923 2133 2 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774923 3 0 2106 2 1224979098644774918 1 2121 3 1224979098644774936 1224979098644774935 1224979098644774918 4 0 30 2 1224979098644774936 0 1776 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774924 1224979098644774936 5 0 1776 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774924 0 3 0


2) The 5 is the total number of missiles fired and the ammount of ammo taken after each shot. The -1 1 and -1 1 are the vertical and horizontal spread range of missiles respectively. If they are set to the same value, then the missiles will spread out in a square form. Note that the difference between (-1, 1) and (-2, 2) may be bigger than you think. The -100 100 is the backward-forward spread range. Keep in mind that the actual position is chosen for each projectile randomly within the previously described ranges. Change the above values to your liking!

3) Don't forget to update each ranged item's entry right after you've inserted the trigger. Lastly, click on the "Save Changes" button and you are done.

Tweak 18 n)

To add flame particles to any weapon and adjust its properties

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

With this tweak, you can create new flame particles, change their properties (length, position, number of particles, inner color, outer color, projected light's color) and add them to any weapon(s) of your choice. But keep in mind that the flames should remain spread alongside a straight line to look good without much effort. Which means that simpler flames will mostly fit weapons with a straight blade/head, i.e. swords, daggers, spears, lances, arrows and bolts. Here are two examples that you can make: https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/999178538942048264/3E5E2FB6ED486CED94830DCF12DDFB08B2926C14/ https://steamuserimages-a.akamaihd.net/ugc/999178538944827172/F71471072F71AFEF5ADF321D3BD90708EBE12C03/

Files:

item_kinds1.txt
particle_systems.txt

1) First, open particle_systems.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by the amount of flame effects that you want to add to the game. In this example, we will add 1 extra flame effect (64 -> 65).

2) Then add the following entry to the end of the file, as 8 new lines:

psys_custom_weapon_fire 12818 prt_mesh_fire_1  550 0.350000 0.200000 0.030000 10.000000 0.000000 
0.500000 0.800000   1.000000 0.000000
0.500000 1.000000   1.000000 0.900000
0.500000 0.700000   1.000000 0.300000
0.500000 0.200000   1.000000 0.000000
0.000000 0.050000   0.300000 0.200000
0.020000 0.560000 0.020000   0.000000 0.000000 0.020000   0.000000 
200.000000 0.500000 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file!

3) Adjust the name of the particle (custom_weapon_fire) if needed, as it has to be an absolutely unique name. But keep in mind that a "psys_" header must be in the beginning. The 0.560000 is the length of the flame effect, which rougly fits a weapon with 125 reach (equals 125 centimeters in-game). For any longer or shorter weapon, you'd need to adjust the length and the number of particles drawn at a time (550) with it, on a linear scale. So if you increased the length by 50% (0.560000 -> 0.840000), then also increase the number of particles by 50% (550 -> 825). The above red, green and blue lines are for controlling the timing and the color of the particles appearing. Each pair of numbers within is according to: time and magnitude for inner color (more dominant component), time and magnitude for outer color (less dominant component). The colors are in a decimal RGB format (0-255) converted into a range of 0.000000 to 1.000000 (divided by 255). The above example results in an orange inner and red outer color. The timing of each base color can be kept at default values for a pleasant result, which is 0.500000 and 1.000000 respectively. There are various online tools out there to determine the RGB code of your choice, for example: https://www.rapidtables.com/web/color/RGB_Color.html. So, the blue flames (blue inner color, white outer color) in the above screenshot are the result of these entries:

0.500000 0.000000   1.000000 1.000000
0.500000 0.500000   1.000000 1.000000
0.500000 1.000000   1.000000 1.000000


Rinse and repeat to add multiple flame effects.

4) Next, open the Item Editor of Morgh's Editor, and navigate to the entry of the weapon(s) of your choice). There is a little box below the 'Flags' tab called 'Trigger'. Change the default 0 value to 1 (or to more, depending on how many flame effects you want to add to that weapon), and paste the following trigger to the empty box below:

-50.000000  4 1955 3 0 68 0 1965 1 1008806316530991168 1950 3 150 130 70 1960 2 10 30


Rinse and repeat for multiple flame effects. The 0 68 0 are the X,Y,Z coordinates for the center of the added flame effect, relative to the handle of the weapon, expressed in in-game centimeters. Y=68 is the set distance towards the front, which should be roughly put to the middle of the blade in case of swords (increase it for weapons with higher reach than 125). To get a good starting estimation, you can use OpenBRF's built-in ruler ("Tools" -> "Measure with ruler" -> "Ruler: ...") after searching (CTRL+F) and finding the mesh name of the given item, copied from Morgh's Editor. The 1008806316530991168 is the link to the flame effect that we added to particle_systems.txt in the previous steps, which has to correspond to the following formula: 1008806316530991104 + № of particle (particle number = (line-3)/8 in Notepad++). Adjust it if needed. The 150 130 70 are for setting the projected light's color in decimal RGB codes (Red, Green, Blue respectively; ranging from 0 to 255). The above color is a mix of yellow and brown. Changing it to blue as seen in the above screenshot would be 0 128 255.

5) Lastly, note that by default, flames on the majority of weapons won't be visible from the distance due to LODs. To fix that, simply rename the different LODs (if there are any), by first copying the mesh name of the given item from Morgh's Editor, then pasting it to the search function (CTRL+F) of OpenBRF and actually finding the .lod1, .lod2, .lod3, etc. of the given mesh. That way the game won't be able to connect those LODs to the given weapon. After you are done with the renaming, save your changes ("File" -> "Save").

Tweak 18 o)

To change the amount of skill, attribute and relation points that books give - credits to VonDegurechaff

Files:

simple_triggers.txt
scripts.txt

1) Open simple_triggers.txt, search for the following pieces of code and observe them:

1521 3 360287970189639680 15 1

1521 3 360287970189639680 7 1

1521 3 360287970189639680 1 1

1520 3 360287970189639680 2 1

1521 3 360287970189639680 0 1

1521 3 360287970189639680 27 1

1521 3 360287970189639680 8 1

288230376151711878 1 3 936748722493063445 432345564227567643 10

288230376151711879 1 3 936748722493063445 432345564227567643 10

288230376151711880 1 3 936748722493063445 432345564227567643 10


2) The colored numbers above mean the following respectively:

1 - Tactics (Memories of a Pendorian Commander)
1 - Persuasion (Applied Rhetorics - Vol. 1)
1 - Leadership (The Great Leaders of Pendor)
1 - Intelligence (The High Arts - Vol. MV)
1 - Trade (The Life of the Silver Fox)
1 - Weapon Master (The Great Fechtbuch, with Pictures)
1 - Engineering (Advanced Engineering: Codex Dak Drommen)
10 - Noldor relations (Codex of the Righteous Ranger)
10 - Noldor relations (Stolen Notes of Luciana of Ethos)
10 - Noldor relations (The Ebon Libram of Laria)

The last 3 pieces don't exist in other mods. The highlighted numbers in the first 7 pieces are the skill IDs, which are most likely in their offset form in other mods. So, if you can't find the above pieces as they are, then replace those skill IDs with the following:

15: 1369094286720630784 + № of Tactics skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
7: 1369094286720630784 + № of Persuasion skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
1: 1369094286720630784 + № of Leadership skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
2: 1369094286720630784 + № of Prisoner Management skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
0: 1369094286720630784 + № of Trade skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
27: 1369094286720630784 + № of Weapon Master skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)
8: 1369094286720630784 + № of Engineer skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

3) The above were the books that need to be read. But there are 3 more that give temporary skill bonuses as long as they are in your inventory. For editing the bonuses of these, open scripts.txt and find these 3 pieces of code under the script called game_get_skill_modifier_for_troop:

288230376151711828 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1
288230376151711829 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 2
288230376151711830 32 2 72057594037927936 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 1


4) The 3 colored numbers above mean the following respectively:

1 - Wound Treatment (The Complete Manual of Herbal Remedies of Pendor)
2 - Trainer (The Life of the Legionnaire - Memories of a Centurion)
1 - Surgery (The Field Surgeon's Handbook)

In case of other mods, you'll also need to make the following adjustments in order to find the above pieces. So, replace:

288230376151711828 with the number you got for: 288230376151711744 + № of itm_book_wound_treatment_reference from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
288230376151711829 with the number you got for: 288230376151711744 + № of itm_book_training_reference from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
288230376151711830 with the number you got for: 288230376151711744 + № of itm_book_surgery_reference from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
2 with 1. Most likely the Trainer book gives only a +1 skill bonus in other mods

Tweak 18 p)

To change the number of hours it takes to read a book - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too!

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

31 2 1224979098644774915 0 2105 2 1224979098644774914 7


2) That 7 is a divisor for a base value of 1000, and the result will be the number of hours it takes to read a book, which is 143 hours by default (1000 / 7 = 143). So for example, to make books take 50 hours to read, change that 7 to 20.

Tweak 18 q)

To modify the effects of the 3 elixirs - credits to VonDegurechaff

Files:

conversation.txt
variables.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) To generally edit the different values, open conversation.txt and find the following pieces for the respective elixir bonuses:

Elixir of Arkon

+2 attribute (STR, AGI & CHA) and +30 weapon proficiency until a given amount of uses:
24 2133 2 1224979098644774912 2 2133 2 1224979098644774913 30

+1 attribute (STR, AGI & CHA) and +15 weapon proficiency after 3 uses:
4 0 30 2 144115188075857204 3 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 15 3 0


Potion of Janus

+2 attribute (INT) until a given amount of uses:
10 2133 2 1224979098644774912 2

+1) attribute (INT) after 3 uses:
4 0 30 2 144115188075857204 3 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1 3 0 2105 2 144115188075857204 1


Dust of Twilight

+2 STR, AGI & CHA (33% chance) or +2 INT (50% chance) or +40) weapon proficiency (17% chance) until a given amount of uses:
40 2133 2 1224979098644774912 2 2133 2 1224979098644774913 40

+1 STR, AGI & CHA (33% chance) or +1 INT (50% chance) or +20) weapon proficiency (17% chance) after 3 uses:
4 0 30 2 144115188075857204 3 2133 2 1224979098644774912 1 2133 2 1224979098644774913 20 3 0 2133 2 72057594037927938 1224979098644774912 2133 2 72057594037927939 1224979098644774913 2105 2 144115188075857204 1


Change the above values to your liking!

2) To remove the CHA bonus provided by the Elixir of Arkon and give it to Potion of Janus instead, you have to cut the following piece from the line starting with dlga_elixir_trade:book_trade_completed:

1520 3 360287970189639680 3 1224979098644774912


Decrease the corresponding operation counter from point 1) by 1 (24 -> 23), then place the above piece right after the following under dlga_elixir_trade:book_trade_completed.1, separated by 1 gap from each side:

1520 3 360287970189639680 2 1224979098644774912


Increase the respective operation counter by 1 (10 -> 11).

3) For the Dust of Twilight, to make the CHA bonus be given alongside INT and make the chance for the 3 possible outcomes even, find this piece of code:

1520 3 1224979098644774916 3 1224979098644774912 1105 1 1585267068834417476 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774917 6 1520 3 1224979098644774916 2 1224979098644774912


And replace it with this:

1105 1 1585267068834417476 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774917 5 1520 3 1224979098644774916 2 1224979098644774912 1520 3 1224979098644774916 3 1224979098644774912


4) To remove the halved effects of elixirs after the 3rd use, delete the parts in italic from point 1) under the 2nd piece for each elixir, while making sure that only 1 gap remains at the place of the removed contents! Then decrease the counters seen in bold at the beginning of the 1st piece for each elixir by 5 (24 -> 19; 10 -> 5; 40 -> 35).

5) You can also separate the halved effect counter for the 3 elixirs, but it is mutually exclusive with the previous point! To do that, replace the 2-2 instances of 144115188075857204 in case of Potion of Janus and Dust of Twilight from point 1) with 144115188075857320 and 144115188075857321 respectively. Then open variables.txt and add the following 2 entries to the end of the file, as a new line each:

g_elixir_uses_b
g_elixir_uses_c


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file! Do the next step ONLY if you've added other entries to variables.txt due to different tweaks. If that's the case, then adjust these highlighted numbers seen above accordingly:

144115188075857320 (2 instances in total) = 144115188075855871 + № of g_elixir_uses_b variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
144115188075857321 (2 instances in total) = 144115188075855871 + № of g_elixir_uses_c variable in variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

6) Lastly, in case you applied point 2) or 3), open quick_strings.txt and locate the following lines respectively:

qstr__Your_Strength_Agili _Your_Strength,_Agility_and_Charisma_have_increased_by_{reg2}.

qstr__Your_Intelligence_h _Your_Intelligence_has_been_increased_by_{reg2}.

qstr__{s5}_s_Strength_Agi _{s5}'s_Strength,_Agility_and_Charisma_have_increased!.

qstr__{s5}_s_Intelligence _{s5}'s_Intelligence_has_increased!.


Replace them accordingly with these:

qstr__Your_Strength_Agili _Your_Strength_and_Agility_have_increased_by_{reg2}.

qstr__Your_Intelligence_h _Your_Intelligence_and_Charisma_have_increased_by_{reg2}.

qstr__{s5}_s_Strength_Agi _{s5}'s_Strength_and_Agility_have_increased!.

qstr__{s5}_s_Intelligence _{s5}'s_Intelligence_and_Charisma_have_increased!.


Tweak 18 r)

To adjust the recovery time of lamed and swaybacked horses - credits to VonDegurechaff

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

With the help of this tweak, you will be able to set up a trigger (happening every x hours) at which all horses in your inventory will recover to one state above. The recovery stages are as follows: 'lame' -> 'swaybacked' -> 'normal' (without modifiers). This means that lamed horses will take 2 recovery cycles to heal up to their normal state.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134)

2) Add the following piece of code to the end of the file, as a new line:

168.000000  16 1540 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 6 3 1224979098644774913 10 1224979098644774912 1541 3 1224979098644774914 360287970189639680 1224979098644774913 2147483679 2 1224979098644774914 -1 1570 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 31 2 1224979098644774915 1 1542 3 1224979098644774916 360287970189639680 1224979098644774913 4 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 30 2105 2 1224979098644774916 1 1544 3 360287970189639680 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774916 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774916 31 1544 2 360287970189639680 1224979098644774913 3 0 3 0 


Also, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

3) The 168 is your trigger timer, expressed in hours. Change it to your liking (168 hours = 1 week)

Tweak 18 s)

A collection of tweaks for changing the stats and flags of various items

You will need the "Item editor" of Morgh's Editor for making these changes. In case of the more complicated edits, I'll also provide the resulting entry for an easy copy-paste application.

File: item_kinds1.txt

Desert War Horse (become a rare merchandise)
tick 'merchandise'
Abundance: 40 -> 1
Ravenstern Armored Warhorse (buff a bit as it's not that special, yet it's a horse used by the king and the 4 strongest/most wealthy lords)
enable 'merchandise' flag
Difficulty: 6 -> 7
Hit points: 200 -> 230
Horse speed: 36 -> 40
Sarleon Armored Warhorse (buff a bit as it's not that special, yet it's a horse used by the king and the 4 strongest/most wealthy lords)
enable 'merchandise' flag
Difficulty: 6 -> 7
Hit points: 200 -> 250
Horse speed: 35 -> 38
 itm_armored_warhorse_ravenstern Ravenstern_Armored_Warhorse Ravenstern_Armored_Warhorse 1  warhorse_steel_02 0  65537 0 2861 110595670016 0.000000 1 0 70 0 7 230 35 40 112 0 42 0
 1
 16
0

 itm_armored_warhorse_sarleon Sarleon_Armored_Warhorse Sarleon_Armored_Warhorse 1  warhorse_steel_01 0  65537 0 3321 110595670016 0.000000 1 0 80 0 7 250 33 38 112 0 45 0
 1
 15
0

Light Mail & Plate (unavailable as merchandise, despite being an iconic body armor of medium tier infantry in the Sarleon troop tree)
enable merchandise flag
enable 15 - fac_kingdom_1 in the "Factions (0)" section (bottom right corner)
Abundance: 100 -> 15
Increase the head/body/leg armor rating of Sapphire, Ruby and Emerald Rune Plates by +2 each, so that they are more worth the price compared to a Lordly Noldor Ancient Plate, which doesn't cost Qualis Gems:
 itm_rune_plate_saphire Sapphire_Rune_Plate Sapphire_Rune_Plate 1  pa_pop_armor_27_second 0  553652237 0 35010 973078948 12.000000 1 9 72 32 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_rune_plate_ruby Ruby_Rune_Plate Ruby_Rune_Plate 1  pa_pop_armor_27_third 0  553652237 0 35030 973078948 32.000000 1 13 77 36 35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_rune_plate_emerald Emerald_Rune_Plate Emerald_Rune_Plate 1  pa_pop_armor_27_fourth 0  553652237 0 35020 973078948 20.000000 1 11 75 34 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_rune_plate_saphire_cape Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Sapphire_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  pa_pop_armor_27_second_cape 0  553652237 0 35010 973078948 12.000000 1 9 72 32 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_rune_plate_ruby_cape Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Ruby_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  pa_pop_armor_27_third_cape 0  553652237 0 35030 973078948 32.000000 1 13 77 36 35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

 itm_rune_plate_emerald_cape Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape Emerald_Rune_Plate_with_Cape 1  pa_pop_armor_27_fourth_cape 0  553652237 0 35020 973078948 20.000000 1 11 75 34 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 0
0

Armet with Plume (unused helm, safe to buff. Now you would consider keeping it for its looks!)
Cost: 1700
Head armor: 55
Armet with Plume - Open (judging by the looks, it should be more protective. It's also used by Pendor Squires, that's the reason for the '50' head armor and lower cost)
Cost: 1000
Head armor: 50
Long Bow (make it a bit more competent):
Damage: 25p -> 26p
Accuracy: 86 -> 88
Shot speed: 65 -> 70
Price: 183 -> 303
 itm_long_bow Long_Bow Long_Bow 2  long_bow 0  long_bow_carry 3458764513820540928  274792456 5905584128 303 656394 1.750000 100 0 0 88 3 0 80 70 0 0 282 0
 0
0

Arquebus (disable/untick the following flags to make it usable from horseback, and buff its damage a bit to be more competent)
can't used on horseback
can't reload on horseback
can't reload while moving mount
Damage: 100p -> 120p
 itm_arquebus_1 Arquebus Arquebus 1  pa_pop_arquebus_1 0  140737494646801 555393482752 8000 132106 3.500000 1 0 0 92 0 0 40 160 0 1 376 0
 0
1
-51.000000  5 600 1 1152921504606847614 720 2 1 0 721 2 1 101 725 2 1 45 1969 3 1008806316530991136 1 15 

Practice Javelin: reduce ammo from 50 to 15, to make it possible to outlast the reckless spam of your opponents during tournaments
Cavalry Mace: increase the abundance to '20' to be able to find one more reliably until you can loot a Doom Mace
Restore the original stats of Runed Bastard Sword. Rune weapons were always meant to be unparalleled. There was a good reason why it was like that up until v3.9. In 1h mode, the Strange Ebony Sabre, the Ebony Long Sword and the Viper Sabre would remain better in terms of raw damage, and even in speed for the former two. So it's still fine, the Runed Bastard Sword won't dominate in all fields:
Cost: 5103
Weight: 3.25
Speed: 118
Swing: 48c
Thrust: 42p
 itm_runed_bastard Runed_Bastard_Sword Runed_Bastard_Sword 2  vik1prepped3 0  vik1prepped3_scabbard 3458764513820540928  4259843 9223635958593749247 5103 222228 3.250000 1 0 0 0 18 44032 118 0 125 0 298 48
 0
0

Give back the overhead swing ability to all 3 staves; Practice Staff, Iron Staff and Quarter Staff:
enable the overswing_polearm flag
disable the overswing_spear and overswing_musket flags
Practice Lance: enable the 'merchandise' flag as it was a good alternative to the Blunt Tip Lance (the only two blunt lances)
Increase the abundance of Blunt Tip Lance to '100', as the current abundance of '10' makes it a too rare merchandise, while it's not that special or good.
Remove the -35% speed and damage penalty for Awlpike, Long Awlpike and Black Iron Spear when used with a shield. All the remaining polearms that can be used with a shield - outside lances - don't have this penalty:
untick penalty with shield flag
Remove the 'unique' flag for the following items to make them lootable, because why not? They are not stronger than the Ruby Rune Plate or the Ruby Rune Axe. Looting one would still be a miracle, but if that happens, the player should be happy for such items. They would probably need some forging from Alexios of Melitine anyway, which would require extra time and money:
Asp Throwing Axes & Asp_Throwing_Axe (melee version)
Demon Helmet
Demonplate Armor
Phoenix Heavy Platemail
Demon Head (to make so that during encounters, Demonic Magni will have their 'demon' heads, and not their 'zombie' heads)
untick/disable covers_head flag

Tweak 18 t)

To change the refreshing rate and components of merchants' stock - credits to Dalion and Rodrygonunes95

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

By default, merchants restock their supplies upon every week (every 168 hours). With the help of this tweak, you can fasten that. Also, you can make merchants always have a given amount of a given item type upon restocking, therefore you can influence the components of their stock. As an example, we will guarantee every weapon merchant to have a musket - thus an Arquebus - for purchase.

File: triggers.txt

1) To change the refreshing rate, find these 3 triggers:

0.000000 0.000000 168.000000  0  16

0.000000 0.000000 168.000000  0  19

0.000000 0.000000 168.000000  0  12


The 1st is for armorers, the 2nd is for weaponsmiths, and the 3rd is for horse merchants. Those 168-s are your restock rates, expressed in hours. In case of other mods, the triggers to be searched for respectively might be different, like so:

0.000000 0.000000 168.000000  0  1 1 1 936748722493063734
0.000000 0.000000 168.000000  0  1 1 1 936748722493063735
0.000000 0.000000 168.000000  0  1 1 1 936748722493063736


To be reassured to find them, check if the constants from above match the following:

936748722493063734: 936748722493063168 + № of refresh_center_armories script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063735: 936748722493063168 + № of refresh_center_weaponsmiths script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)
936748722493063736: 936748722493063168 + № of refresh_center_stables script from scripts.txt (script number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

2) To change the stock components, find the following pieces of code according to which merchant's trigger you'd like to edit, in triggers starting with 0.000000 0.000000 168.000000:

Armorers and weaponsmiths (2 instances, 1 for each):
1510 2 1224979098644774912 40 1511 1 1224979098644774912

Horse merchants:
1510 2 1224979098644774912 65 1511 1 1224979098644774912


The higlighted values of 40 and 65 are the amount of forced empty item slots (out of 96, from the bottom) in the inventory of each merchant. Decrease them (to a minimum of 0) to increase the size of their shop and increase them (to a maximum of 96) to make it smaller. This determines the theoretical maximum size of the given merchant's shop. The actual amount of items within this limitation will be the sum of the values seen 5 numbers after the different instances of 1513 in each trigger, which is 1 in the sample code below. Those numbers (right after those orange numbers in other words) are the guaranteed amount of items within a given type. Regarding horse merchants, the amount of horses offered is a random number between 5 and 15 by default in PoP. In case of other mods, possibly you have to find the above instances in scripts called refresh_center_armories (armorers), refresh_center_weaponsmiths (weaponsmiths) and refresh_center_stables (horse merchants) if there are such. Furthermore, the value 40 is likely different, e.g. it's 30 in Native.

Now we will edit the 2nd trigger (which is for weapon merchants), according to the example. Add the following piece of code to before the given merchant's code. In this case, to before the 2nd instance of the first one from above:

1513 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 17 1


Watch for the gaps, so that there is 1 at the start and 1 at the end of the inserted piece! The 17 is the item type ('musket') and the 1 is the quantity. The different possible item types are as follows:

1 = 'horse'
2 = 'one-handed weapon'
3 = 'two-handed weapon'
4 = 'polearm'
5 = 'arrows'
6 = 'bolts'
7 = 'shield'
8 = 'bow'
9 = 'crossbow'
10 = 'throwing weapon'
11 = 'goods'
12 = 'head armor'
13 = 'body armor'
14 = 'leg armor'
15 = 'hand armor'
16 = 'pistol'
17 = 'musket'
18 = 'bullets'
19 = 'animal'
20 = 'book'

You can add multiple item types to given merchants by the same method. But beware that if there are multiple items belonging to the same item type, then their actual appearance will be split up relatively to their abundance. By the amount of item types added (1513 4 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774914 X Y), increase the respective red operation counters by 1, seen in point 1). In our case, increase the 19 by 1 (19 -> 20). Lastly, if you'd like to make the Arquebus actually appear in all weapon merchants' stock, you'd have to enable its 'merchandise' flag using the Item Editor of Morgh's Editor. The abundance value can stay as is, since there is only 1 item flagged as a 'musket' in PoP by default, which is the Arquebus.

3) With this information in your hands, change the above values to your liking.

Tweak 18 u)

To automatically display an item's ID number in-game - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Anyone who has worked with troops or items knows how important it is to know the exact ID number of an item, and how time consuming it can be sometimes to figure it out. This tweak is designed to make your life easier in this regard once you have turned the cheatmenu on (which is required). With it, the ID number will be automatically displayed as well among the item stat when you hover your mouse over one in the game. This kind of implementation has several other advantages too:

Support for newly added items
The displayed ID number will be always correct, regardless of the order of items in item_kinds1.txt
After turning off the cheatmenu, the ID number display will also be turned off, so that the tweak does not ruin the casual gameplay experience

Files:

quick_strings.txt
scripts.txt
variables.txt

1) Open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter in the first line of the file by 1 (3139 -> 3140), and add the following line to the end of the file:

qstr_ID_=_{reg20} ID_=_{reg20}


Make sure that an empty line remains at the very end of the file.

2) Next, open scripts.txt, find the script called game_get_item_extra_text and increase the operation counter at the beginning of its body by 7 (113 -> 120). Then find this piece within:

23 2 1224979098644774912 1 23 2 1224979098644774913 2 23 2 1224979098644774914 3


And add this piece right after it, separated by 1 gap from each side:

4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 31 2 1224979098644774913 7 2133 2 72057594037927956 1224979098644774912 60 1 1585267068834417731 2075 1 40086 3 0


In case you added something else to quick_strings.txt due to other tweaks, then the 1585267068834417731 must correspond to 1585267068834414592 + sequence number of the added string to quick_strings.txt - 2. It's 3141 by default in case of PoP, making 1585267068834417731 = 1585267068834414592 + 3141 - 2.

3) In case of other mods, increase the operation counter at the beginning of the body of the game_get_item_extra_text script by 7, then find the first instance of 4 0. To before it, separated by 1 gap from each side, add this piece of code:

4 0 31 2 144115188075856146 1 31 2 1224979098644774913 7 2133 2 72057594037927956 1224979098644774912 60 1 1585267068834417731 2075 1 40086 3 0


You'll need to adjust the highlighted numbers from above as follows, so replace:

144115188075856146 with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
1585267068834417731 with the number you got for: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_ID_=_{reg20} from quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

19. Skills (5)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
19 a) To increase the skill caps past 10
19 b) To change various effects of the Persuasion skill
19 c) Overhaul of the player's prisoner capacity and of the way how Prisoner Management affects it
19 d) To change the trade penalty reduction of the Trade skill
19 e) To remove the random skill bonuses and their chance


Tweak 19 a)

To increase the skill caps past 10

This tweak requires a new game to take effect!
This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

Currently you can't raise your skills past 10, which provides less interest in making high-end characters with more than 30 points in attributes for some more goals towards the end-game. And some skills could offer more or be more worthwhile after a given investment. You can never be strong enough in PoP after all. Also, some of these extensions have the potential to fix some irritating mechanics. I think regular skill effects capped between 88-90% are fair and intriguing.

File: skills.txt

It is easier and error-proof to use TweakMB (link above) for making these changes. Or if you need to make edits manually (like in case of other mods), then all you need to edit is the second number after the name of the given skill in skills.txt. Those are the skill caps and they should all be at 10 by default. I will only list the skills which could get their cap changed. The rest should remain at 10 because they would either break things, or they are useless past 10 either way:

Ironflesh: 15 (+30 HP)
Power Strike: 15 (+120% melee damage at max)
Power Throw: 15 (+150% throwing damage at max)
Power Draw: 14 (+196% damage with bows at max. Now it can finally be worth to use bows with 10 PD requirement!)
Horse Archery: 15 (damage and missile speed of bows & throwing weapons increased by 1.9% per point. Damage starts at 80% with 0 points, so at 15 points, it becomes 108,5%, while missile speed will be at 128.5%. Crossbows and firearms are not affected - special thanks to Vetrogor and K700)
Shield: 11 (88% damage reduction at max)
Athletics: 15 (faster running speed and party movement on map when on foot)
Riding: 15 (faster riding speed, party movement on map when on horse and better manoeuvrability)
Looting: 15 (+190% loot at max)
Tactics: 14 (+9 battle advantage at max)
Pathfinding: 15 (+57% party speed on map at max)
Spotting: 15 (+190% spotting range at max)
Wound Treatment: 15 (+380% healing rate at max)
Surgery: 12 (89% chance at max for troops to get KO-d instead of killed)
First Aid: 12 (90% health regenerated for the next battle round at max)
Persuasion: 15 (100% chance to convince all companions to stay from 12, no matter of their disputes, complaints and morale. And better convincing powers for various situations. 100% chance to convince prisoners to join your party at 15)
Prisoner Management: 15 (+150 prisoner cap at max and 100% chance to capture NPC-s from 12. You may find it frustrating when lords and unique spawn leaders still manage to escape after the fight when they were clearly knocked out. While surrounded by dozens of watching units and being unconscious, it's weird to see someone escape)
Leadership: 15 (+150 party cap, -75% wages, +75% party morale and -75% escape chance for recruited prisoners. Seems fair and square to me)
Trade: 15 (-95% trade penalty at max. The feat of a true master trader!)

Tweak 19 b)

To change various effects of the Persuasion skill - credits to TheMageLord and Alex Toews

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too!

Files:

conversation.txt
menus.txt

1) To change how much it affects the convincing of companions to stay in your party. When companions try to leave your party, the game takes a number between -2 and 12 (<13 integer), and compares it to your Persuasion skill. If the number is less than or equal to it, then they stay, otherwise they leave. To edit this aspect, open conversation.txt and find this piece of code:

2136 3 1224979098644774912 -2 13


The -2 13 is your default range. Keep in mind that the upper end of the range will always be X-1.

2) To increase your chance of convincing lords/kings to do certain actions in your favor. The calculation for the bonus starts with your Persuasion skill getting +5 added. Then two random numbers get taken between 0 and (Persuasion + 5 - 1), and these two numbers get added together. The game then subtracts the Persuasion strength and does a bunch of other calculations, until you end up with the result. Basically, Persuasion doesn't do much here by default. To change this, open conversation.txt and find this piece of code:

2120 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 5


This is where 5 gets added to your Persuasion. Compared to changing this value however, the biggest difference can be achieved by changing the 2120 to 2122, to make the calculation multiply with the 5 instead of adding it. This might make it too easy to persuade lords/kings on higher Persuasion levels, but it's the easiest method to turn up the effects. Decrease the 5 if you find the results to be too strong.

3) To change your chance of recruiting prisoners from your party. The chance of prisoners rejecting your recruitment offer is: (15 - YourPersuasionSkill) x 4 [%]. So with 0 Persuasion, you would get a 60% chance for rejection, whereas 10 Persuasion would give you only a 20% chance for rejection by default. There is also an offset which is zero by default, and the exact formula is unknown right now. However on smaller ranges (-20 < X < 20), it scales like this with a relatively good approximation: -/+ 0 x (10 + YourPersuasionSkill) / 20 [%]. Under the same conditions as above, setting that 0 to 20 for example will decrease the chance of prisoners rejecting your offer by 10% with 0 Persuasion (making it 50% in total), and by 20% with 10 Persuasion (making it 0% in total). The effect is roughly the opposite if you set that 0 to -20. To change the above calculations, open menus.txt and find this piece of code under menu_camp_recruit_prisoners:

0 100 2170 3 1224979098644774921 1369094286720630791 360287970189639680 2121 3 1224979098644774922 15 1224979098644774921 2107 2 1224979098644774922 4


The 0 is the offset factor, the 15 is what your Persuasion score (skill) is subtracted from and the 4 is the multiplier. Reducing that 15 would decrease the chance of rejection, both with and without any points in Persuasion. By every point you reduce it, the rejection rate gets lowered by 4% overall. So reducing the 15 to 10 would mean 0% rejection at Persuasion 10 and 40% at Persuasion 0. This is the value I recommend, with the offset factor left as is at 0, because the exact formula and behaviour is unknown. In case of other mods, the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774921) are likely different, but there should be only 1 instance with the same pattern, namely a 0, 10 numbers later a 15, 5 numbers later a 4.

Tweak 19 c)

Overhaul of the player's prisoner capacity and of the way how Prisoner Management affects it - credits to Dalion

This tweak is likely compatible with other mods too!

With this tweak, the amount of prisoners you can keep will be based on how many units you have in your party at the given time (not counting yourself, hence the -1 in the below formulas). Similarly to how it is done in Viking Conquest. The ratio depends on your Prisoner Management skill: at 0 PM, you need 5 soldiers to keep an eye on 1 prisoner (prisoner_capacity = (party_size - 1) / 5), and this cap decreases by 0.3 per each skill point. Therefore, at 10 PM, you need 2 soldiers to keep an eye on 1 prisoner (prisoner_capacity = (party_size - 1) / 2).

File: scripts.txt

1) Locate the script called game_get_party_prisoner_limit and replace it with this:

game_get_party_prisoner_limit -1
 10 2133 2 1224979098644774912 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 5 2170 3 1224979098644774914 1369094286720630786 360287970189639680 1601 2 1224979098644774915 648518346341351424 2107 2 1224979098644774914 3 2108 2 1224979098644774914 10 2106 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774914 2123 3 1224979098644774912 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774913 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 2075 1 72057594037927936


2) You are done. Also, note that this tweak is incompatible with the one about making your companions contribute their PM skill to your prisoner capacity. Choose one or the other. In case of other mods, all you need to check for compatibility is that 1369094286720630786 equals 1369094286720630784 + № of Prisoner_Management skill from skills.txt (line-2 in Notepad++) or not. Adjust the value if needed! In 99% of cases it should be fine as is, not much mods add new skills or change their order.

Tweak 19 d)

To change the trade penalty reduction of the Trade skill - credits to TheMageLord

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

By default, there is a trade penalty on the items you buy and sell. That penalty is relative to the base value of items, which starts at 15% for trade goods, and at 100% for buying and 80% for selling everything else (weapons, armor and horses). Points in Trade skill will reduce these penalties, thus reducing the difference between purchase and selling prices. The reduce factor is 1% for goods and 5% for "everything else" per skill point (10+4 = 14 is the maximum). However, note that the game never lets the penalty get reduced below zero.

File: scripts.txt

1) Find this piece of code under the get_trade_penalty script, which contains the values described above:

15 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1 2106 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 100 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 5


2) Based on the description at the start, it is almost useless to change the 1 to 2 even, as with a Trade skill of 10+4, you already cut the penalty down to 1% (15%-14*1%) with the default setting. Likewise, it is not worthwhile to change the 5 to any higher than 10, as with a Trade skill of 10 alone, you would already eliminate the Trade penalty completely, both for selling and buying weapons, armor and horses. Still, feel free to change the above values to your liking!

3) In case of other mods, either the local variables (e.g. 1224979098644774915) or some of the highlighted values might be different (e.g. 12), but the pattern is similar, so you should be able to locate the values needed. For instance, the piece of code from point 1) looks like this in Native:

12 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 1 2106 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774915 2111 2 1224979098644774913 3 5 0 2133 2 1224979098644774913 100 2122 3 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774914 5


Tweak 19 e)

To remove or edit the random skill bonuses and their chance - credits to Dalion

This tweak lets you change or remove the increase of your skills due to random events that may rarely happen upon travelling on the world map. Regarding the removal of random skill bonuses, the reason is simple: they may ruin character progression for some perfectionists.

Files:

scripts.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) Open scripts.txt and find the script called spawn_signature. Decrease the counter at the beginning of its body by 56 (191 -> 135), then delete this piece:

5 0 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 310 1105 2 1585267068834415182 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 13 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 320 1105 2 1585267068834415183 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 1 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 330 1105 2 1585267068834415184 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 17 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 340 1105 2 1585267068834415185 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 15 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 350 1105 2 1585267068834415186 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 8 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 360 600 1 1152921504606847202 1105 2 1585267068834415187 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 23 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 370 1105 2 1585267068834415188 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 2 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 380 1105 2 1585267068834415189 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 27 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 390 1105 2 1585267068834415190 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 24 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 400 1105 2 1585267068834415191 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 9 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 410 1105 2 1585267068834415192 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 25 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 420 1105 2 1585267068834415193 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 12 1 5 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774915 430 1105 2 1585267068834415194 5308240 1521 3 360287970189639680 10 1 3 0 3 0


Watch for the gaps, so that only 1 remains at the place of the deleted piece!

2) Or alternatively, you can just edit the highlighted values above. Currently there is a random roll between 0 and 3000 that is used for various occurrence chances in the script, and 0-300 is already taken. Random skill bonuses take the range of 300-430 by default, in increments of 10 each (there are 13 different skill bonuses). 430 to 3000 is free to distribute upon. Which means that there's enough room for each range of 10 to become 200, increasing the current chances 20 times each, and that should be plenty enough. The values of 310, 320, 330, ... 430 are the ones you'll need to change, and they take rolls through a 'less than' condition, while already taken ranges are excluded. E.g. 310 represents a roll that is less than than 310 but greater or equal to 300, as the lower than 300 range ([0-299]) is already taken as a whole. So, the maximum setting (x20 chances) would be the following:

310 -> 500
320 -> 700
330 -> 900
340 -> 1100
350 -> 1300
360 -> 1500
370 -> 1700
380 -> 1900
390 -> 2100
400 -> 2300
410 -> 2500
420 -> 2700
430 -> 2900

As for the skill bonuses themselves, they are in pairs and they define the given skill to be increased (through its ID) and the actual increase in value. In retrospect to the belonging random event description found in quick_strings.txt, they are as follows currently:

You_have_the_feeling_that_someone_or_something_is_watching_you.__Your_spotting_skill_has_increased_by_1.

13 1
You_suddenly_realize_that_there_is_utter_silence_surrounding_you.__The_lack_of_sound_seems_deafening.__Your_leadership_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

1 1
Suddenly_you_feel_unusually_alert_and_the_hairs_on_the_back_of_your_neck_stand_on_end!__Your_training_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

17 1
As_if_in_a_daze,_you_look_around_you_with_a_sense_of_deja-vu,_recalling_a_dream_you_once_had_of_conversing_with_a_woman_who_had_long_dark_hair_and_almond_eyes.__The_conversation_was_important,_but_try_as_you_will,_you_cannot_remember_what_was_said.__Your_tactics_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

15 1
There_is_a_strangely_hypnotic_melody_playing_in_your_mind.__You_cannot_put_your_finger_on_where_or_when_you_heard_it_before,_but_it_keeps_playing_over_and_over_again_and_you_can't_get_it_out_of_your_head.__You_have_a_feeling_that_if_you_could_recall_who_had_played_it,_the_significance_of_the_tune_would_be_important.__Your_Engineering_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

8 1
You_were_idly_watching_cloud_formations_in_the_sky_as_you_did_when_you_were_a_child,_seeing_shapes_and_faces_within_the_clouds.__One_form_seemed_to_be_that_of_a_fleet_horse_archer_racing_across_the_sky.__Suddenly,_an_arrow_drives_into_the_ground_before_you,_seemingly_shot_from_the_archer_in_the_sky.__Your_horse_archery_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

23 1
In_the_sound_of_a_gusting_wind_you_hear_voices_but_cannot_make_out_what_they_are_saying.__You_strain_to_listen,_but_the_voices_fade_away.__You_know_they_were_trying_to_tell_you_something,_but_could_not_make_out_the_message.__Your_prisoner_management_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

2 1
As_you_travel,_you_strain_your_eyes_towards_the_distant_horizon.__Something_is_there;_you_can_just_make_out_far_off_movement_but_cannot_see_clearly.__A_misty_form_flashes_briefly_in_front_of_the_trees_and_is_gone.__Your_weapons_master_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

27 1
Last_night_you_dreamed_that_you_were_riding_a_horse_swifter_than_the_wind,_which_never_tired,_though_you_rode_for_an_eternity.__You_bent_over_his_neck_and_his_mane_blew_against_your_face.__You_recall_the_dream_perfectly_and_wonder_what_it_might_portend.__Your_riding_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

24 1
Carried_by_the_wind,_the_sound_of_a_cheerful_tune_played_upon_a_Noldor_flute_reaches_your_ears,_but_there_is_no_one_visible.__You_know_that_if_you_could_just_find_the_musician,_you_would_be_enthralled_utterly_by_the_music.__As_you_look_about,_the_music_ends.__Your_first_aid_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

9 1
A_chill_runs_down_your_spine_and_you_shiver.__Someone_must_be_walking_over_your_future_grave.__Your_athletics_skill_has_been_increasd_by_1.

25 1
You_have_the_oddest_feeling_that_something_ghostly_is_behind_you_and_keep_looking_over_your_shoulder.__All_you_see_is_the_men_who_follow_you.__A_chill_hand_brushes_your_cheek.__Your_inventory_management_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

12 1
As_you_travel,_something_flashes_in_the_grass.__You_pick_it_up_and_see_it_is_a_curiously_curved_dagger_of_obviously_ancient_provenance._Your_surgery_skill_has_been_increased_by_1.

10 1

Adjust these accordingly if you wish. The ID value of each skill is:

Trade = 0
Leadership = 1
Prisoner Management = 2
Persuasion = 7
Engineer = 8
First Aid = 9
Surgery = 10
Wound Treatment = 11
Inventory Management = 12
Spotting = 13
Pathfinding = 14
Tactics = 15
Tracking and Hunting = 16
Trainer = 17
Looting = 22
Horse Archery = 23
Riding = 24
Athletics = 25
Shield = 26
Weapon Master = 27
Power Draw = 33
Power Throw = 34
Power Strike = 35
Ironflesh = 36

20. Cheats (7)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
20 a) To restore the Easter Egg about an easier start
20 b) To disable the 'Cheater' achievement
20 c) To be able to enable and disable the cheatmenu from in-game
20 d) To extend the "Get 100 troops" and "Get lords" cheat menu options to include all troops and NPCs
20 e) To make the "Find item" cheat pages be browsable backwards too
20 f) To add more options to the right-click menu of parties
20 g) To add free experience points to your party


Tweak 20 a)

To restore the Easter Egg about an easier start - credits to don.zorin63

This tweak requires a new game to take effect!

This tweak restores your ability to bring a bag of Salt and Spice to a training field, and upon choosing the "Tell me about Pendor" option from the trainer there, to receive the following, given you have enough space (25) in your party:

5 x Noldor Maiden Ranger
5 x Noldor Twilight Knight
5 x Noldor Ranger
5 x Noldor Warrior
5 x Pendor Knight
+4 honor
+200 renown
+100,000 denars
+1 Qualis gem
+1 baggage train

If you only have a bag of Salt in your inventory when you talk to a trainer, then you will only get the troops. You need to have a bag of Spice as well to receive the rest. Be warned, this easter egg works only once, as for the rest of the game, all 5 training grounds will disappear from the world map after you chose the above option.

File: conversation.txt

1) Search for this piece of code:

dlga_trainer_talk_combat:close_window 69631 1359  2 150 1 288230376151711832 31 2 0 1 Tell_me_about_Pendor.


2) And replace it with this:

dlga_trainer_talk_combat:close_window 69631 1359  1 150 1 288230376151711832 Tell_me_about_Pendor.


3) Watch for the gaps, as usual.

Tweak 20 b)

To disable the 'Cheater' achievement - credits to VonDegurechaff

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

4 0 31 2 0 0


2) And replace it with this:

4 0 31 2 1 0


Tweak 20 c)

To be able to enable and disable the cheatmenu from in-game - credits to Caba'drin and kowalskiy

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

This is an alternative way to activate the cheat menu for those who don't want to bother with restarting the game for each time the cheat menu can be turned on, or for those who simply can't use the usual CTRL + ~ because they don't have that tilde (~) key on their keyboard layout.

File: menus.txt

1) Find the line that starts with menu_camp_action, and increase the number (submenu counter) at the end of this line by 2 (10 -> 12)

2) Then in the next line, find mno_action_retire. Replace it with this piece of code:

mno_action_disable_cheat_mode  1 31 2 144115188075856146 1  Disable_cheat_mode.  2 2133 2 144115188075856146 0 2060 1 864691128455135259  .  mno_action_enable_cheat_mode  1 31 2 144115188075856146 0  Enable_cheat_mode.  2 2133 2 144115188075856146 1 2060 1 864691128455135259  .  mno_action_retire


3) Start up the game and see if you can see the option under "Camp -> Take an action". Additionally, in case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from point 2). So replace:

144115188075856146 (4 instances) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_mode variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
864691128455135259 (2 instances) with the number you got for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_camp from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 20 d)

To extend the "Get 100 troops" and "Get lords" cheat menu options to include all troops and NPCs - credits to Dalion

The "Get 100 troops" and the "Get lords" cheat menu options under the tester's menu (requires 'edit mode' and 'cheats' to be turned on) are very handy to check how certain units look (let it be due to editing or just checking in general) after taking them out with you to the camp. Or to realize special playthroughs, where the different NPC-s (e.g. mercenary company leaders) act as companions in your party. And yet, the following troops are still missing:

All unique spawn leaders (including Eyegrim and Seeress)
All mercenary company leaders
All bandit lair leaders (Heretic High Priest, Singalian Vidona, etc.)
All ladies in waiting
All the remaining NPCs such as tavernkeepers, merchants, senechals, guildmasters, village elders, etc.

That will be no longer the case after applying this tweak. Also, keep in mind that if you can't take an NPC into your party due to the "Take" button being greyed out, that's because that NPC has the 'unmovable' flag enabled. To disable that, just follow the steps in the tweak that is responsible for making companions garrisonable.

File: menus.txt

1) To extend the "Get 100 troops" option, find this piece of code:

mno_camp_cheatleo_get_50_troops  1 255 0  Get_100_troops.  11 1617 1 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639735 360287970189640106 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639980 360287970189639999 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640030 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189640007 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639764 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639947 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640046 360287970189640065 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774912 100 3 0 2043 2 1 648518346341351425  .


And replace it with this:

mno_camp_cheatleo_get_50_troops  1 255 0  Get_100_troops.  6 1617 1 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639735 360287970189640870 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640099 360287970189640859 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774912 100 3 0 2043 2 1 648518346341351425  .


2) To extend the "Get lords" option, find this piece:

menu_testers_cheat 4096 Cheats_for_testers. none 1 2031 1 1441151880758558775 15


Increase that 15 by 1 (15 -> 16), then find this piece:

mno_camp_cheatleo_get_lords  1 255 0  Get_Lords.  5 1617 1 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640185 360287970189640315 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774912 10 3 0 2043 2 1 648518346341351425


And replace it with this:

mno_camp_cheatleo_get_lords  1 255 0  Get_Lords.  6 1617 1 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639980 360287970189640629 1507 1 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774912 10 3 0 2043 2 1 648518346341351425  .  mno_camp_cheatleo_get_lords_2  1 255 0  Get_Lords_2.  6 1617 1 648518346341351425 6 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189640629 360287970189640878 1507 1 1224979098644774912 1610 3 648518346341351425 1224979098644774912 10 3 0 2043 2 1 648518346341351425 


Watch for the gaps, so that you have the same amount of them as before, at the start and at the end of the replaced piece. Note that not all NPCs could be fit into a single range, and as such, there will be 2 submenus: Get_Lords and Get_Lords_2.

Tweak 20 e)

To make the "Find item" cheat pages be browsable backwards too - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

File: menus.txt

1) Find the line that starts with menu_cheat_find_item, and increase the number (submenu counter) at the end of this line by 1 (3 -> 4)

2) Then in the next line, find mno_cheat_find_item_choose_this. Replace it with this piece of code:

mno_cheat_find_item_prev_range  0  {!}Move_to_previous_item_range.  9 2106 2 144115188075856169 96 4 0 2147483678 2 144115188075856169 0 2123 3 1224979098644774912 288230376151713316 96 2107 2 1224979098644774912 96 2121 3 1224979098644774913 288230376151713316 1224979098644774912 2121 3 144115188075856169 288230376151713316 1224979098644774913 3 0 2060 1 864691128455135264  .  mno_cheat_find_item_choose_this


3) In case of other mods, you'll also need to adjust the following numbers from point 2). So replace:

144115188075856169 (3 instances) with the number you got for: 144115188075855871 + № of cheat_find_item_range_begin variable from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)
288230376151713316 (3 instances) with the number you got for: 288230376151711744 + № of itm_items_end from item_kinds1.txt (entry number in Morgh's Editor)
864691128455135264 (2 instances) with the number you got for: 864691128455135232 + № of menu_cheat_find_item from menus.txt (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 20 f)

To add more options to the right-click menu of parties - credits to Dalion

With this tweak, when you have the cheatmenu turned on, and you right-click on a party on the world map, you will see 4 new options that will greatly help you in testing stuff:

Track with camera - locks the camera view on the selected party until you press one of the movemement keys. Useful if you want to track someone, but notifications from seneschals would constantly put the view back to your party otherwise. The party to be followed cannot be towns, castles and villages.
Manage party members - provides full control over the composition of the selected party. You can take / put anyone there (including the leader NPC and the prisoners), creating situations in a couple of seconds that you would have to wait for hours under an "honest" scenario. You cannot manage the party of cow herds, bandit lairs, training fields, Mines of Al-Aziz, Old Ruins, the Order Stronghold and Elacrai. With this option, no matter how big a party is, you can see/check all party members too!
Get over here! - teleports the selected party to your current position, accompanied by a characteristic sound. Why play cat and mice with the different spawns for hours if you can immediately move them where you want? Obviously, the party to be brought over cannot be any of the previous exceptions.
Stop party - whatever the selected party is doing gets aborted after selecting this option. The given party will come to a stop and go into standby mode, accompanied by a characteristic sound. It is useful when you want to pit two spawns against each other asap, without getting frustrated with one running and the other chasing it at an identical or very similar speed for hours. However, keep in mind that the behavior of a stopped unit is unpredictable - it may move on again in an hour, or may remain standing for months, so use this option with caution. Once again, the selected party for this action cannot be a location on the map.

Also, the tweak has 3 bonus features:

Now you can escort any party on the map, even the enemy ("right-click" -> "accompany"). Originally, only caravans and lords from the same faction as you could be escorted
Unstuck any party from around water and bridges (previously it was possible only for lords)
If 'edit mode' is enabled in the launcher, then the cheatmenu can be turned on by pressung the 'PageUp' button and turned off by pressing the 'PageDown' button. So no more messing with the game console!

Files:

scripts.txt
simple_triggers.txt
menus.txt
quick_strings.txt

1) Open scripts.txt, find the script called game_context_menu_get_buttons and increase the counter at the beginning of its body by 8 (40 -> 48).

2) Then, find this piece of code:

4 0 541 3 1224979098644774912 0 13 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 1608 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 1 31 2 1224979098644774915 9 980 2 1585267068834414900 3 3 0 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2204 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 144115188075856294 1073741855 2 1224979098644774916 432345564227567630 541 3 1224979098644774912 0 11 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351446 648518346341351594 980 2 1585267068834414901 -6 3 0 4 0 31 2 0 1 1 3 936748722493063320 1224979098644774912 0 980 2 1585267068834414902 4 2133 2 72057594037927936 1224979098644774912 980 2 1585267068834414903 5 3 0


3) And replace it with this:

4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 1608 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 8 1073741855 2 1224979098644774915 1 31 2 1224979098644774915 9 980 2 1585267068834414900 3 3 0 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351594 648518346341351679 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 2 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 3 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 4 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 18 980 2 1585267068834414901 -6 980 2 1585267068834417731 5 3 0 4 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 648518346341351424 2147483681 3 1224979098644774912 648518346341351594 648518346341351679 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 17 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 18 31 2 144115188075856146 1 980 2 1585267068834417732 6 4 0 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 2 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 3 2147484189 3 1224979098644774912 0 4 980 2 1585267068834417733 7 980 2 1585267068834417734 8 3 0 3 0


Watch for the gaps, so that 1 remains before and after the replacement.

4) Next, in the script called game_event_context_menu_button_clicked, increase the counter at the beginning by 31 (16 -> 47).

5) Then find this piece:

1231 1 1224979098644774912 3 0


6) And replace it with this:

1231 1 1224979098644774912 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 5 500 3 360287970189639680 748 1224979098644774912 1603 3 1224979098644774912 16384 1 1021 1 1224979098644774912 2330 2 3 1224979098644774912 2204 2 1224979098644774915 1224979098644774912 1277 2 1224979098644774916 1224979098644774915 1125 1 1 1126 1 1 1122 2 1585267068834417735 1224979098644774916 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 6 2133 2 72057594037927966 1224979098644774912 2060 1 864691128455135551 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 7 600 1 1152921504606847348 1625 2 1 648518346341351424 1626 2 1224979098644774912 1 5 0 31 2 1224979098644774913 8 600 1 1152921504606846977 1603 3 1224979098644774912 65536 0 1640 2 1224979098644774912 0 1606 2 1224979098644774912 0 1647 2 1224979098644774912 0 1607 2 1224979098644774912 0 1639 2 1224979098644774912 0 1641 2 1224979098644774912 -1 1645 2 1224979098644774912 100 3 0 


7) Now, open simple_triggers.txt and find this empty trigger:

2.000000  0 


8) Replace the whole entry with this:

0.000000  39 4 0 71 1 201 255 0 2133 2 144115188075856146 1 5 0 71 1 209 255 0 2133 2 144115188075856146 0 3 0 4 0 71 1 14 520 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 748 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 4 0 132 1 1224979098644774912 1603 3 1224979098644774912 16384 1 1021 1 1224979098644774912 2330 2 3 1224979098644774912 2204 2 1224979098644774913 1224979098644774912 1277 2 1224979098644774914 1224979098644774913 1125 1 1 1126 1 1 1122 2 1585267068834417735 1224979098644774914 5 0 1106 2 1585267068834417736 16406616 500 3 360287970189639680 748 0 600 1 1152921504606846984 3 0 3 0 1073741895 1 17 1073741895 1 31 1073741895 1 30 1073741895 1 32 71 1 224 1122 1 -1 520 3 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 748 32 2 1224979098644774912 0 132 1 1224979098644774912 1603 3 1224979098644774912 16384 0 


9) Then, open menus.txt, increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (319 -> 320), and add this piece to the end of the file, as two new lines:

menu_manage_members 0 You_shouldn't_be_reading_this... none 3 2060 1 864691128455135495 2043 2 1 72057594037927966 1603 3 72057594037927966 65536 1 1
 mno_continue  0  Continue  1 2040 0  .


Make sure that an empty line remains at the end of the file!

10) Lastly, open quick_strings.txt, increase the counter at the top of the file by 6 (3139 -> 3145), and copy these 6 lines to the end of the file, as a new line each:

qstr_Track_with_Camera Track_with_camera
qstr_CHEAT:_Manage_Member CHEAT:_Manage_party_members
qstr_CHEAT:_Get_Over_Here CHEAT:_Get_over_here!
qstr_CHEAT:_Stop_Party CHEAT:_Stop_party
qstr_The_camera_is_now_fo The_camera_is_now_following_{s3}._If_you_lose_sight_of_this_party_somehow,_press_[Backspace]_to_renew_the_tracking_as_long_as_the_party_still_exists_on_the_world_map._Any_movement_key_will_reset_the_camera_view_back_to_the_player's_party.
qstr_That_party_is_gone._ That_party_no_longer_exists._Camera_view_is_switched_back_to_the_player.


Once again, make sure that an empty line remains at the end of the file!

11) Do this step ONLY if you've added other entries to quick_strings.txt and/or menus.txt due to different tweaks. If that's the case, then adjust these highlighted numbers seen above accordingly:

1585267068834417731 (quick_strings.txt, in point 3): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_Track_with_Camera entry (line_number-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417732 (quick_strings.txt, in point 3): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_CHEAT:_Manage_Member (line_number-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417733 (quick_strings.txt, in point 3): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_CHEAT:_Get_Over_Here (line_number-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417734 (quick_strings.txt, in point 3): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_CHEAT:_Stop_Party (line_number-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417735 (quick_strings.txt, in point 6 & 8): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_The_camera_is_now_fo (line_number-2 in Notepad++)
1585267068834417736 (quick_strings.txt, in point 8): 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_That_party_is_gone._ (line_number-2 in Notepad++)
864691128455135551 (menus.txt, in point 6): 864691128455135232 + № of menu_manage_members from point 9 (menu number = (line-3)/2 in Notepad++)

Tweak 20 g)

To add free experience points to your party - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

Whenever pressing the "H" key on the world map, your whole party will get a given amount of shared experience as a result of a spontaneous training session. This tweak is essentially a cheat version of the one that adds the ability to train your party in training fields. Note that the more troops you have in your party, the less experience each individual troop will get (including you and your companions). Also, keep in mind that troops in batches train faster, as any surplus experience from each unit inside a stack gets passed to the rest of the units inside the same stack (and then the remaining experience gets passed to other troop stacks). And last but not least, there's a hard limit of a single troop being unable to gain more than 30000 experience points at a time. Meaning that you won't be able to train much those higher level companions like Lethaldiran or the 3 Sirs, and that a good part of the shared experience may vanish if there are not enough troops in your party to "consume" it.

File: triggers.txt

1) Increase the counter in the 2nd line by 1 (32 -> 33), and add the following trigger to the very bottom of the file, as a new line:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  1 71 1 35  2 1106 1 1585267068834416714 1674 2 648518346341351424 10000 


That 10000 is the amount of experience points shared. Change it to your liking. Lastly, make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

2) Additionally, in case of other mods, adjust the 1585267068834416714 as follows: 1585267068834414592 + № of qstr_The_training_went_pe from quick_strings.txt (line-2 in Notepad++)

21. Miscellaneous (13)
Expand
Tweaks to be found in this section:
21 a) To enable the custom font of PoP and adjust its size
21 b) To remove the luck decay
21 c) To increase the size of all chests in the game to the maximum
21 d) To change some values about resting
21 e) To change level-up and some skill bonuses
21 f) To increase the experience points gained
21 g) To change the frequency of rolling a new value for prerolled chances
21 h) To make conversations with mounted troops happen from horseback once again
21 i) To change your skin and fix some conversations addressing your gender wrongly
21 j) To switch some terrain textures to alternative ones
21 k) To relocate Sange Safid and Tuldar Fortress to more appropriate locations
21 l) To enable a hidden quick-start option
21 m) To fix the issue about ambient sounds from arenas and taverns getting played even after leaving


Tweak 21 a)

To enable the custom font of PoP and adjust its size

Only if you are on Windows! Linux and Mac users should keep on using the default font, as the custom one won't appear correctly for them.

It is recommended that you play Prophesy of Pendor with the fonts that were created for it specifically. It is much more appealing visually than the native text, it is easy to read and texts won't clutter with the different borders either.

To enable it, copy either the content of the folder named OPTIONAL_FONT_ENG (main english version) or the content of OPTIONAL_FONT_RUS_UKR_ENG (russian, ukrainian and alternative english version) under the _README_POP folder, to the mod's main installation directory - so to two directories up - and overwrite everything.

Also, you can adjust the font size in the 2nd line of font_data.xml (open with Notepad++), now found in your Data folder. Just look for font_size= and font_scale=, and change their value to your liking.

Tweak 21 b)

To remove the luck decay - credits to Dalion

This tweak can be made compatible with other mods too after minor adjustments

M&B Warband has a concept of "player_luck" by default. When the game starts, the player is given 300 luck points, and every 200 in-game hours it decreases by one. When it falls below 100 (from day 1667 onwards), the player has a chance to lose a random attribute point each time when getting knocked unconscious. The chance for that to happen will be equal to the difference between 100 and your current luck (for example, if luck is 60, then the chance that an attribute will decrease is 100-60 = 40% when getting knocked out). In Prophesy of Pendor, buying Elixirs of Arkon from Finneas de Digit increases your luck by +30 upon the first 3 uses and by +15 afterwards. This tweak is dedicated to people who usually have prolonged playthroughs and who don't think that it's fair that their hard-earned attribute points can be lowered permanently.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find the trigger that has this piece in it:

2106 2 144115188075856083 1 2111 2 144115188075856083


In case of other mods, you need to replace the 144115188075856083 (2 instances) with this in order to find the above piece: 144115188075855871 + № of g_player_luck from variables.txt (line number in Notepad++)

2) Replace the whole line with this, an empty trigger:

200.000000  0 


Tweak 21 c)

To increase the size of all chests in the game to the maximum - credits to sher

This tweak requires a new game to take effect by default, however you can use the above linked savegame editor to make the changes savegame-compatible
This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

For those who are obsessed with collecting items. Only the hidden chest in Valonbray and the inventories of enterprise craftsmen (18 in PoP) are not set to the maximum size, so you won't have to change much. The maximum size of a chest/inventory is limited by the game engine, which is 96 slots.

1) Open the Troop Editor of Morgh's Editor, and change the Inventory Management skill to 10 for the following troops:

trp_town_1_master_craftsman
trp_town_2_master_craftsman
trp_town_3_master_craftsman
trp_town_4_master_craftsman
trp_town_5_master_craftsman
trp_town_6_master_craftsman
trp_town_7_master_craftsman
trp_town_8_master_craftsman
trp_town_9_master_craftsman
trp_town_10_master_craftsman
trp_town_11_master_craftsman
trp_town_12_master_craftsman
trp_town_13_master_craftsman
trp_town_14_master_craftsman
trp_town_15_master_craftsman
trp_town_16_master_craftsman
trp_town_17_master_craftsman
trp_town_18_master_craftsman
trp_bonus_chest_3


2) Done. In case of other mods, make sure you check the other trp_bonus_chest entries in Morgh's Editor, as well as the remaining trp_town_XX_master_craftsman entries if there are any, where XX stands for further towns past 18.

Tweak 21 d)

To change some values about resting - credits to Alex Toews

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

There are 3 different values about resting which you can change with this tweak:

The maximum number of consecutive hours that the game will let you rest at a time without interrupting you
The speed multiplier, which is the rate at which the time on the world map speeds up compared to travelling or waiting. Making this value too high will cause huge stutters.
The toggle to decide whether you can be attacked or not while resting. If through tweaking, you get caught while resting in a town/castle, a field battle will be initiated.

The values of the last option are still editable with TweakMB, so that specifically won't be listed here.

You can rest at the following places:

Elacrai
Order Stronghold
Any friendly/neutral town or castle
Any village that has a Manor built
Anywhere on the map while camping
Anywhere on the map while setting up an 'infinite camp' from the cheatmenu

File: menus.txt

1) Find the following pieces of codes for each scenario:

Elacrai, Order Stronghold, Hideout and any other castle/town respectively (4 instances in total, in this order):
1031 3 168 5 0

Camping normally:
1031 3 8760 5 1

In a village that has a Manor built:
1031 3 168 5 1


2) Blue values above are the maximum number of consecutive hours allowed for resting, the red numbers are the speed multipliers, and the green numbers are the toggles for being attackable or not while resting (1: yes, 0: no). Change these values to your liking.

Tweak 21 e)

To change level-up and some skill bonuses - credits to Dalion

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

Aside from the experience points gained, you can change the amount of attribute, skill and weapon proficiency points given on each level-up, as well as the skill cap per attribute point in module.ini. Furthermore, you can also change some skill-related bonuses as described below. The respective entries are not present by default, but you can just add them and then they will become editable.

File: module.ini

1) To change the bonuses from level-ups, add the following lines right after regulars_xp_multiplier = 1:

attribute_points_per_level = 1
skill_points_per_level = 1
weapon_points_per_level = 10
attribute_required_per_skill_level = 3


2) To change some other, mostly skill-related bonuses, add any of the following lines right after regulars_xp_multiplier = 1 too:

track_spotting_multiplier = 

radius increase for detecting tracks per point of Tracking skill
base_companion_limit = 10

your party limit without taking into account Charisma, Leadership or Renown bonuses
skill_leadership_bonusblood_multiplier = 10

your party limit increase per point of Leadership skill
skill_prisoner_management_bonus = 10

your prisoner limit increase per point of Prisoner Management skill

3) Change the highlighted values to your liking! Regarding the attribute points required per skill level (3 by default), keep in mind that going above 10 will make you unable to max skills, since the highest your attributes can go is 63 (without savegame-editing), and to be able to max skills would already require you to reach 60 points in the respective attributes.

Tweak 21 f)

To increase the experience points gained

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!

File: module.ini

There are 3 lines for each troop type:

player_xp_multiplier   = 1.5
hero_xp_multiplier     = 1.5
regulars_xp_multiplier = 1.0


First is for the player, the second is for NPC-s such as companions and vassals, and the last is for all trainable troops. The native setting is 2.0, 2.0, 3.0, so you can see how these were changed in PoP. Change these values to your liking:

For the player, the hardcoded maximum xp gain rate is 10.0, changing the value to an even higher one will not make any difference. At 10.0 rate, you'll be able to reach level 56-58 by the end-game depending on your tenacity, so it still wouldn't ruin much of the gameplay balance, as PoP has many units that are level 60.
For other hero units however, you can go as high as 1000.0, it will still take an effect, but note that the effects scale logarithmically, so there's not much point in increasing it further (and it's not confirmed that it works past that point). At 1000.0, companions will roughly keep up with the player's leveling at 10.0 rate for a good while.
For trainable troops, anything beyond 10.0 starts to be pointless in the meaning that most troops will already train instantly, under a single training session.

If you also think that it's a bit unfair that the player and companions can't reliably reach lvl 50+ by the end of a playthrough (since there are a whole bunch of units at lvl 50 and above in PoP), then what I've found interesting and relatively fair, is setting up dynamic xp_multipliers. By increasing the modifiers as you level up (requires you to relaunch Warband each time you change them):
- xp modifier for the player set to 2.0 and 20.0 for NPC-s (companions) by default (from 1.5)
- then, upon every 6th level from that, increase the multipliers by 1 and 10 respectively:

lvl [1-6]: 2.0 & 20.0
lvl [7-12]: 3.0 & 30.0
lvl [13-18]: 4.0 & 40.0
lvl [19-24]: 5.0 & 50.0
lvl [25-30]: 6.0 & 60.0
lvl [31-36]: 7.0 & 70.0
lvl [37-42]: 8.0 & 80.0
lvl [43-48]: 9.0 & 90.0
lvl [49+]: 10.0 & 100.0 (the max for the player)
And you may just set 1000.0 (the max) for heroes from this point onwards

Tweak 21 g)

To change the frequency of rolling a new value for prerolled chances

By default, upon every 120 hours (5 days) in-game, you get the chance for capturing unique spawn leaders and for getting special offers from ransom brokers and travelers rerolled if there wasn't any of such actions performed respectively in the meantime. With the help of this tweak, you'll be able to set that frequency to a much lower amount, allowing you to bypass these kind of prerolled stuff with save and load mechanics.

File: simple_triggers.txt

1) Find this trigger:

120.000000  48 2136 3 1224979098644774912 1 100 4 0 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 1 1 936748722493063601 3 0 1 2


It also has a piece of code responsible for the spawning of Azi Dahaka Death Cult Marauders, which should be moved to another trigger first. Only perform the steps below if you haven't done so already!

2) So, decrease the 48 by 5 (48 -> 43) and delete the blue part. Watch for the gaps, as always.

3) Then, add the following trigger to the end of the file, as a new line:

120.000000  3 2136 3 1224979098644774912 1 100 2147483678 2 1224979098644774912 50 1 1 936748722493063601 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file. Editing this trigger's frequency belongs to another tweak.

4) Increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (133 -> 134).

5) Lastly, that 120.0 in the former trigger is the one you should edit overall. That value is the frequency for rerolling your chance, expressed in hours. The value set doesn't have to be a complete hour, it could be 0.1 hour (6 minutes) even. Going below that is not advised, as it would only stress your CPU more by having the need to call the given script more often.

Tweak 21 h)

To make conversations with mounted troops happen from horseback once again - credits to Vetrogor

This tweak is totally universal, thus can be applied to any mod as is!
Note: the horse snort sounds will also be readded to conversations, it's unavoidable

File: mission_templates.txt

1) Find the section called mst_conversation_encounter, and under it you'll see these entries:

32 0 16 768 0 1 0  
1 16 768 0 1 0  
2 16 768 0 1 0  
3 16 768 0 1 0 
4 16 768 0 1 0  
5 16 768 0 1 0  
6 16 768 0 1 0  
7 16 768 0 1 0  
8 16 768 0 1 0  
9 16 768 0 1 0  
10 16 768 0 1 0  
11 16 768 0 1 0  
12 16 768 0 1 0  
13 16 768 0 1 0  
14 16 768 0 1 0  
15 16 768 0 1 0  
16 16 768 0 1 0  
17 16 768 0 1 0  
18 16 768 0 1 0  
19 16 768 0 1 0  
20 16 768 0 1 0  
21 16 768 0 1 0  
22 16 768 0 1 0  
23 16 768 0 1 0  
24 16 768 0 1 0  
25 16 768 0 1 0  
26 16 768 0 1 0  
27 16 768 0 1 0  
28 16 768 0 1 0  
29 16 768 0 1 0  
30 16 768 0 1 0  
31 16 768 0 1 0  


2) Change all those 768 values to 512 (32 instances in total).

3) In case of other mods, you can make conversations with mounted troops happen on foot, by doing the above changes oppositely. Which means that you need to replace all 512 values with 768.

Tweak 21 i)

To change your skin and fix some conversations addressing your gender wrongly - credits to Dalion

After applying this tweak, whenever you'll press a button combo of left Alt and a number (regular, not numpad) on the world map, it will change your skin/gender (cheat or edit modes are not a requirement). These are the given options:

Alt + 1: male
Alt + 2: female
Alt + 3: pretty female
Alt + 4: undead male
Alt + 5: noldor male
Alt + 6: arena man (more muscular body)
Alt + 7: snake cult undead male (green skin)

You can tell if the skin conversion happened by hearing a specific "completion" sound, used in tutorials.

Files:

triggers.txt
conversation.txt

1) Open triggers.txt and increase the counter in the 2nd line of the file by 1 (32 -> 33). Then add this trigger to the end of the file, as a new line:

0.000000 0.000000 0.000000  8 70 1 56 1073741895 1 2 1073741895 1 3 1073741895 1 4 1073741895 1 5 1073741895 1 6 1073741895 1 7 71 1 8  30 4 0 71 1 2 1505 2 360287970189639680 0 2133 2 144115188075856152 0 5 0 71 1 3 1505 2 360287970189639680 1 2133 2 144115188075856152 1 5 0 71 1 4 1505 2 360287970189639680 2 2133 2 144115188075856152 1 5 0 71 1 5 1505 2 360287970189639680 3 2133 2 144115188075856152 0 5 0 71 1 6 1505 2 360287970189639680 4 2133 2 144115188075856152 0 5 0 71 1 7 1505 2 360287970189639680 5 2133 2 144115188075856152 0 5 0 71 1 8 1505 2 360287970189639680 7 2133 2 144115188075856152 0 3 0 600 2 1152921504606846978 3840 


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file! After making the desired skin/gender changes in-game, click on your character portrait and adjust your face model if needed. Then save the game.

2) Then open conversation.txt and find this piece:

dlga_lord_talk_ask_marriage_1:lord_pretalk.1 4095 631  24 2133 2 144115188075855985 -1 4 0 1506 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 0 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 3 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 4 540 3 144115188075855892 30 -1


Replace it with this:

dlga_lord_talk_ask_marriage_1:lord_pretalk.1 4095 631  22 2133 2 144115188075855985 -1 4 0 1506 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 33 3 1224979098644774912 1 3 540 3 144115188075855892 30 -1


Watch for the gap at the end, so that only 1 remains between the replacement and the remainder of the line!

3) Lastly, find this line:

dlga_lord_give_oath_give_up:lord_pretalk 4095 690  2 1506 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 2147483679 2 1224979098644774912 0 Take_whatever_time_you_need,_my_lady.  227  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


And replace it with this:

dlga_lord_give_oath_give_up:lord_pretalk 4095 690  2 1506 2 1224979098644774912 360287970189639680 33 3 1224979098644774912 1 3 Take_whatever_time_you_need,_my_lady.  227  0 NO_VOICEOVER 


Tweak 21 j)

To switch some terrain textures to alternative ones - credits to Saxondragon

Files:

map_steppe.dds
plains.dds
snow.dds

1) Rename plains.dds to plain.dds in the folder named OPTIONAL_TEXTURES_BY_SAXONDRAGON under the _README_POP folder.

2) Then simply copy the content of that folder to the SceneObj folder and overwrite everything.

Tweak 21 k)

To relocate Sange Safid and Tuldar Fortress to more appropriate locations - credits to Dalion

This tweak requires a new game to take effect by default, however you can use the above linked savegame editor to make the changes savegame-compatible

These 2 castles in particular are out of the desertous D'Shar territory and are located in grassy plains, despite their scene. Since their exterior is surrounded by hilly areas, they will get relocated close to mountains in this tweak. A further idea is to inhabitate the D'Shar desert a bit more: https://i.servimg.com/u/f62/19/75/99/36/reloca11.jpg. Sange Safid gets location #3 and Tuldar Fortress gets location #2.

File: parties.txt

1) In the record of Sange Safid, find this piece:

-44.150000 -50.280000 -44.150000 -50.280000 -44.150000 -50.280000


And replace it with this:

-53.300000 -124.210000 -53.300000 -124.210000 -53.300000 -124.210000


2) In the record of Tuldar Fortress, find this piece:

-10.340000 -60.210000 -10.340000 -60.210000 -10.340000 -60.210000


And replace it with this:

-63.370000 -109.860000 -63.370000 -109.860000 -63.370000 -109.860000


Tweak 21 l)

To enable a hidden quick-start option - credits to Dalion

Yes, PoP has a hidden option for a quick start, which bypasses the character creation process. But the enabling itself won't make much difference since it's placed in a wrong spot. This tweak not only enables the option, but also fixes the issue.

File: menus.txt

1) Find this piece of code:

mno_pop_cheat  1 31 2 0 1  [TEST]_Just_let_me_play!  5 1 1 936748722493063453 1672 2 648518346341351424 72057594037927936 1623 3 648518346341351424 648518346341351451 2 1511 1 360287970189639680 2040 0  .  


2) Replace the 31 2 0 1 with "255 0" (without the quotation marks), and the 2040 with "2052".

3) Then cut out the whole piece (including the 2 gaps after the dot in the end!), and put it into the body of the menu called menu_start_game_0 (the upmost menu in the file), right before the mno_continue submenu. Watch for the starting gap and that 2-2 gaps remain before and after each separating dot! Overall, the result should look like this:

menu_start_game_0 18374686479671628288 Welcome,_adventurer,_to_Prophesy_of_Pendor!_^_Before_beginning_the_game_you_must_create_your_character._^^_Be_very_careful,_Adventurer._Your_background_choices_here_will_forever_impact_your_options_and_opportunities_in_Pendor. none 21 2133 2 144115188075856134 0 2133 2 144115188075856135 0 2133 2 144115188075856136 0 2133 2 144115188075856137 0 2133 2 144115188075856138 0 2133 2 144115188075856139 0 2133 2 144115188075856140 0 2133 2 144115188075856141 0 2133 2 144115188075856142 0 2133 2 144115188075857213 -40 2133 2 144115188075857211 0 2133 2 144115188075857212 1 271 1 120 2133 2 144115188075857217 3 2133 2 144115188075857270 36 2133 2 144115188075857271 36 2133 2 144115188075856323 14 2133 2 144115188075857218 14 2133 2 144115188075857301 1 2133 2 144115188075857300 0 2031 1 1441151880758558750 2
 mno_pop_cheat  1 255 0  [TEST]_Just_let_me_play!  5 1 1 936748722493063453 1672 2 648518346341351424 72057594037927936 1623 3 648518346341351424 648518346341351451 2 1511 1 360287970189639680 2052 0  .  mno_continue  0  Continue...  1 2060 1 864691128455135239  .  mno_go_back  0  Go_back  1 2055 0  .


4) Increase the 2 at the end of menu_start_game_0 by 1 (2 -> 3) and decrease the 7 at the end of menu_start_phase_2 (1 2031 1 1441151880758558751 7) by 1 (7 -> 6), as a result of the relocation of the above piece.

5) That would be all. The option called "[TEST]_Just_let_me_play!" after clicking on the "New game" button will be displayed only if 'Edit Mode' is enabled in the game launcher. Clicking on it will bring you straight to the world map. Keep in mind however that since you've totally skipped the character creation this way, your character will be lvl 1 and naked, so it is recommended to buff him in Morgh's Editor before testing stuff. 'Import character' is not an option this time since your character won't have a name. If you open the character window ("c") to give him one, then you will have to face the very thing you wanted to skip. Character creation...

Tweak 21 m)

To fix the issue about ambient sounds from arenas and taverns getting played even after leaving - credits to Vetrogor

Ambient sounds from taverns and arenas sometimes get played over continuously until you quit the game. You probably encountered this issue before, which is likely the cause of the game's engine. With this tweak, this issue will be fixed.

Files:

variables.txt
mission_templates.txt

1) First, open variables.txt and add the following entry to the end of the file, as a new line:

ambiance_channel


Make sure that there remains an empty line at the very end of the file.

2) Next, open mission_templates.txt and decrease the trigger counter (the number by itself on a single line) by 3 under the section called mst_town_default (16 -> 13)

3) Then delete the following triggers (following each other) from the body of mst_town_default (only from there, beware!):

-30.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 609 1 1 2133 2 144115188075856124 0 
-23.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 609 1 1 2133 2 144115188075856124 0 
-29.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 609 1 1 2133 2 144115188075856124 0 


4) After that, find this trigger:

-19.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  10 1 1 936748722493063512 1 1 936748722493063752 31 2 144115188075856124 4 600 1 1152921504606847613 4 0 31 2 144115188075856216 1 1 2 936748722493063677 16384 5 0 1 2 936748722493063677 512 3 0 


And replace it with this:

-19.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  11 1 1 936748722493063512 1 1 936748722493063752 31 2 144115188075856124 4 600 1 1152921504606847613 615 1 144115188075857320 4 0 31 2 144115188075856216 1 1 2 936748722493063677 16384 5 0 1 2 936748722493063677 512 3 0 


5) Next, find this trigger:

-21.000000 0.000000 0.000000  4 4 0 31 2 144115188075855932 0 2075 1 1 3 0  0 


And replace it with this:

-21.000000 0.000000 0.000000  4 31 2 144115188075855932 0 2075 1 1 609 0 30 1 144115188075857320  2 616 1 144115188075857320 2133 2 144115188075857320 -1 


6) Then, find this trigger under the section called mst_arena_melee_fight:

0.200000 0.000000 100000000.000000  0  3 31 2 144115188075856124 3 600 1 1152921504606847346 1 2 936748722493063677 134217728


And replace it with this:

0.200000 0.000000 100000000.000000  0  4 31 2 144115188075856124 3 600 1 1152921504606847346 615 1 144115188075857320 1 2 936748722493063677 134217728


7) Also, find the following triggers (following each other), still in the body of mst_arena_melee_fight:

-30.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 609 1 1 2133 2 144115188075856124 0 
-29.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  2 609 1 1 2133 2 144115188075856124 0


And replace them with these respectively:

-30.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  7 609 1 1 2133 2 144115188075856124 0 4 0 32 2 144115188075857320 -1 616 1 144115188075857320 2133 2 144115188075857320 -1 3 0
-29.000000 0.000000 0.000000  0  7 609 1 1 2133 2 144115188075856124 0 4 0 32 2 144115188075857320 -1 616 1 144115188075857320 2133 2 144115188075857320 -1 3 0


8) Lastly, make sure that the highlighted instances of 144115188075857320 (11 in total: 1 in point 4, 3 in point 5, 1 in point 6, 6 in point 7) match this formula: 144115188075855871 + № of ambiance_channel (line number seen in variables.txt with Notepad++). It is only needed to check if you added something else to variables.txt due to different tweaks. Otherwise the above will work as is.